1822
Historic term that refers to the original ARPANET host-to-IMP interface. The
specifications are in BBN report 1822. See host and IMP.

2B1Q
2 binary 1 quaternary. Encoding scheme that provides a 2 bits per baud, 80-kbaud per
second, 160-kbps transfer rate. The most common signaling method on ISDN U
interfaces. This protocol is defined in detail in 1988 ANSI spec T1.601.

6BONE
The internet’s experimental IPv6 network.

4B/5B local fiber
4-byte/5-byte local fiber. Fiber channel physical media used for FDDI and ATM.
Supports speeds of up to 100 Mbps over multimode fiber. See also TAXI 4B/5B.

802.x
Set of IEEE standards for the definition of LAN protocols.

822
Short form of RFC 822. Refers to the format of Internet style e-mail as defined in RFC
822.

AAA
authentication, authorization, and accounting. Pronounced “triple a."

ABCD signaling
4-bit telephony line signaling coding in which each letter represents 1 of the 4 bits. This
is often associated with CAS or robbed-bit signaling on a T1 or E1 telephony trunk.

ACD
automatic call distribution. Device or service that automatically reroutes calls to
customers in geographically distributed locations served by the same CO. See also CO

ACELP
algebraic code excited linear prediction.

ACOM
Term used in G.165, “General Characteristics of International Telephone Connections
and International Telephone Circuits: Echo Cancellers.” ACOM is the combined loss
achieved by the echo canceller, which is the sum of the echo return loss, echo return loss
enhancement, and nonlinear processing loss for the call.

ActiveX
Microsoft’s Windows-specific non-Java technique for writing applets. ActiveX applets
take considerably longer to download than the equivalent Java applets; however, they
more fully exploit the features of Windows 95. ActiveX is sometimes said to be a
superset of Java. See also applet, Java.

AD
administrative domain. Group of hosts, routers, and networks operated and managed by
a single organization.

addressed call mode
Mode that permits control signals and commands to establish and terminate calls in
V.25bis. See also V.25bis.

administrative weight
See AW and PTSP.

ADPCM
adaptive differential pulse code modulation. Process by which analog voice samples are
encoded into high-quality digital signals.

ADSL
asymmetric digital subscriber line. One of four DSL technologies. ADSL is designed to
deliver more bandwidth downstream (from the central office to the customer site) than
upstream. Downstream rates range from 1.5 to 9 Mbps, while upstream bandwidth
ranges from 16 to 640 kbps. ADSL transmissions work at distances up to 18,000 feet
(5,488 meters) over a single copper twisted pair. See also HDSL, SDSL, and VDSL.

ADSL2 interface ADSL interface that supports ITU-T Standard G.992.3 and ITU-T Standard G.992.4. The ADSL2
interface allocates downstream (provider-to-customer) data rates of up to 12 Mbps and
upstream (customer-to-provider) rates of up to 1 Mbps.

ADSL2+ interface ADSL interface that supports ITU-T Standard G.992.5 and allocates downstream
(provider-to-customer) data rates of up to 25 Mbps and upstream (customer-to-provider)
rates of up to 1 Mbps.

Advanced CoS Management
advanced class-of-service management. Essential for delivering the required QoS to all
applications. Cisco switches contain per-VC queuing, per-VC rate scheduling, multiple
CoS queuing, and egress queuing. This enables network managers to refine connections
to meet specific application needs. Formerly called FairShare and OptiClass.

Advanced Intelligent Network
See AIN.

AIN
Advanced Intelligent Network. In SS7, an expanded set of network services made
available to the user, and under user control, that requires improvement in network
switch architecture, signaling capabilities, and peripherals. See also SS7.

AIO
Asynchronous input/output.

A-link
SS7 access link. Dedicated SS7 signaling link not physically associated with any
particular link carrying traffic.

allowed cell rate
See ACOM.

ALOE
Archaic. AppleTalk Low Overhead Encapsulation. A vendor-developed alternative to AURP, ALOE provides a mechanism to tunnel AppleTalk protocols inside IP packets, typically in WAN links.

ALO transaction
ATP transaction in which the request is repeated until a response is received by the
requester or until a maximum retry count is reached. This recovery mechanism ensures
that the transaction request is executed at least once. See also ATP.

AMA
Automatic Messaging Accounting. In OSS, the automatic collection, recording, and
processing of information relating to calls for billing purposes.

AMADNS
AMA Data Networking System. In OSS, the next generation (formerly Bellcore) system
for the collection and transport of AMA data from central office switches to a billing
system. See also AMA.

AMATPS
AMA Teleprocessing System. In OSS, the Bellcore legacy system for collecting and
transporting AMA data from central office switches to a billing system. The AMATPS
consists of an AMA transmitter and a collector. See also AMA.

American National Standards Institute
See ANP.

Ambient
Referring to a set of conditions that exist independently of the system of interest.

ANI
automatic number identification. SS7 (signaling system 7) feature in which a series of
digits, either analog or digital, are included in the call, identifying the telephone number
of the calling device. In other words, ANI identifies the number of the calling party.

AOCE
Apple Open Collaboration Environment. A system of higher- level protocols used for the transmission of data and authentication between applications.

anonymous FTP
Allows a user to retrieve documents, files, programs, and other archived data from
anywhere on the Internet without having to establish a userid and password. By using
the special userid of anonymous, the network user will bypass local security checks and
will have access to publicly accessible files on the remote system. See FTP.

ANP
automatic numbering plan.

anycast
In ATM, an address that can be shared by multiple end systems. An anycast address can
be used to route a request to a node that provides a particular service.

AOW
Asia and Oceania Workshop. One of the three regional OSI Implementors Workshops.
See also EWOS.

APC
adjacent point code. The point code of the next hop in the system for the bearer
channels; usually it is the STP (signal transfer point).

APNIC
Asia Pacific Network Information Center. Nonprofit Internet registry organization for
the Asia Pacific region. The other Internet registries are currently IANA, RIPE NCC and
InterNIC.

applet
Small program, often used in the context of a Java-based program, that is compiled and
embedded in an HTML page. See ActiveX and Java.

AppleShare
An application published by Apple that allows a Macintosh to be a file server using the AFP protocol.

AppleTalk
1. Apple’s proprietary network architecture. 2. The protocols, applications, networks and services included in Apple’s network architecture.

AppleTalk Filing Protocol
See AFP

AppleTalk Session Protocol
See ASP.

APS
automatic protection switching. SONET switching mechanism that routes traffic from
working lines to protect them in case of a line card failure or fiber cut.

Archie
System that provides lists of anonymous FTP archives. See Gopher, WAIS, and World
Wide Web.

ARIN
American Registry for Internet Numbers. Nonprofit organization established for the
purpose of administrating and registrating IP numbers to the geographical areas
currently managed by Network Solutions (InterNIC). Those areas include, but are not
limited to, North America, South America, South Africa, and the Caribbean

ASAM
ATM subscriber access multiplexer. A telephone central office multiplexer that supports
SDL ports over a wide range of network interfaces. An ASAM sends and receives
subscriber data (often Internet services) over existing copper telephone lines,
concentrating all traffic onto a single high-speed trunk for transport to the Internet or the
enterprise intranet. This device is similar to a DSLAM (different manufacturers use
different terms for similar devices).

ASCU
agent-set control unit.

ASDSP
AppleTalk Secure Data Stream Protocol. An encrypted version of ADSP used by AOCE.

ASI
ATM Service Interface.

ASN
auxiliary signal network.

ASP
1. AppleTalk Session Protocol. Protocol that uses ATP to provide session establishment,
maintenance, and teardown, as well as request sequencing. See also ATP.
2. Telecommunications: Auxiliary signal path. Link between TransPaths that allows
them to exchange signaling information that is incompatible with the PSTN backbone
network; used to provide feature transparency.

assigned numbers
RFC [STD2] documents the currently assigned values from several series of numbers
used in network protocol implementations. This RFC is updated periodically, and
current information can be obtained from the IANA. If you are developing a protocol or
application that will require the use of a link, socket, port, protocol, and so forth, contact
the IANA to receive a number assignment. See IANA and STD.

Asymmetry
In networking, a system in which the relationship between two entities is inherently unequal, with each entity restricted to a set of operations and prerogatives defined by its role in the relationship.

Asynchronous
A system of communication in which each discreet delivery of information establishes its own timing impulse rather than having to conform to the timing impulse of previous deliveries.

Asynchronous
Term describing digital signals that are transmitted without precise clocking. Such signals generally have different frequencies and phase relationships. Asynchronous transmissions usually encapsulate individual characters in control bits (called start and stop bits) that designate the beginning and end of each character. Compare with Isochronous transmission, plesiochronous transmission, and synchronous transmission.

AT commands Transmission
A set of commands that control a modem or alter its characteristics.

AT commands 
Instructions for controlling modems, originally developed by Hayes, Inc. for their modems and
sometimes called Hayes commands. Each command line begins with AT (an abbreviation of
ATtention), signaling that it is a modem command. This command structure is a de facto
industry standard for modems, with specific commands varying by manufacturer.

ATCP
AppleTalk Control Protocol. Protocol that establishes and configures AppleTalk over
PPP, as defined in RFC 1378. See also PPP.

ATH
attention hangup.

at-least-once transaction
See ALO transaction.

ATM ARP server
Device that provides address-resolution services to LISs when running classical IP over
ATM. See also LIS.

ATM endpoint
Point in an ATM network where an ATM connection is initiated or terminated. ATM
endpoints include ATM-attached workstations, ATM-attached servers, ATM-to-LAN
switches, and ATM routers.

ATM network
See ATM network in the “Cisco Systems Terms and Acronyms” section.

ATM NIC
ALI. Interface between ATM and 3G systems. See also ATM

ATM service interface.
See ASCU.

AU
access unit. Device that provides ISDN access to PSNs. See also PSN.

AUSM
ATM user service module

automatic call distribution
See ACD.

automatic protection switching
See APS.

Automatic Routing Management
Formerly AutoRoute. Connection-oriented mechanism used in Cisco WAN switches to
provide connectivity across the network. Switches perform a connection admission
control (CAC) function on all types of connections in the network. Distributed network
intelligence enables the CAC function to automatically route and reroute connections
over optimal paths, while guaranteeing the required QoS.

autonomous system boundary router
See ASAM.

AVM
ATM voice multiplexer.

AW
administrative weight. Value set by the network administrator to indicate the desirability
of a network link. One of four link metrics exchanged by PTSPs to determine the
available resources of an ATM network.


Back End Processor
A computer running an application that supplies data to other computers on demand, but has no user interface.

Background Task
A computing task that is executing while another task or application is displaying its user interface.

Backward Compatible
An upgraded component of a computing system that can be usedinterchangeably with its previous version.

Base address
The lowest address available in an address range.

Baseband
A communication system in which only one signal is carried at any one time.

Baud Rate
The number of voltage or frequency transitions per second.

BCP
Best Current Practices. The newest subseries of RFCs that are written to describe BCPs
in the Internet. Rather than specifying a protocol, these documents specify the best ways
to use the protocols and the best ways to configure options to ensure interoperability
between various vendors’ products.

BDCS
Broadband Digital Cross-Connect System. SONET DCS capable of cross-connecting
DS-3, STS-1 and STS-3c signals. See also DCS.

Berkeley Internet Name Domain
See BIND.

Berkeley Standard Distribution
See BSD.

Best Practices Assessment (Palo Alto)
See BPA. 

BIA
burned-in MAC address.

BICI
Broadband Inter-Carrier Interface. ITU-T standard that defines the protocols and
procedures needed for establishing, maintaining, and terminating broadband switched
virtual connections between public networks.

BinHex
Binary Hexadecimal. Method for converting binary files into ASCII for transmission by
applications, such as e-mail, that can only handle ASCII.

BIP
bit interleaved parity. In ATM, a method used to monitor errors on a link. A check bit or
word is sent in the link overhead for the previous block or frame. Bit errors in the
payload can then be detected and reported as maintenance information.

bisync
Binary Synchronous Communication Protocol. Character-oriented data-link protocol
for applications. Contrast with Synchronous Data Link Control (SDLC).

bit interleaved parity
See BIP.

Bit pattern
A sequence of bits that has a specific purpose or meaning.

BLSR
Bidirectional Line Switch Ring. SONET ring architecture that provides working and
protection fibers between nodes. If the working fiber between nodes is cut, traffic is
automatically routed onto the protection fiber. See also SONET.

BNC
Bayonet “N” Connector. 1. The locking connector type used in 10Base2 (Thin Ethernet). 2. Any connector similar to the type used by 10Base2 for CATV, and other electronic uses.

BNI
Broadband Network Interface.

BNM
Broadband Network Module.

BPI
baseline privacy interface.

BPV
bipolar violation.

BPX Service Node
See BPX Service Node in the “Cisco Systems Terms and Acronyms” section.

break-out/break-in
See BOBI in the “Cisco Systems Terms and Acronyms” section.

BRF
bridge relay function.

Broadband Network Interface
See BNI.

Broadband Network Module
See BNM.

Broadband Switch Module
See BXM.

BSTUN
Block Serial Tunneling

BTU
British thermal units.

BTW
by the way. One of many short-hand phrases used in chat sessions and e-mail
conversations. See also IMHO.

Bufferbloat 
A cause of high latency in packet-switched networks caused by excess buffering of packets. Bufferbloat can also cause packet delay variation (also known as jitter), as well as reduce the overall network throughput. When a router or switch is configured to use excessively large buffers, even very high-speed networks can become practically unusable for many interactive applications like voice over IP (VoIP), online gaming, and even ordinary web surfing.

build
Create flat files that are ready for use by the signaling controller database.

burst tolerance
See BSTUN

Bus Interface Gate Array
See BIGA in the “Cisco Systems Terms and Acronyms” section.

BVI
Bridge Group Virtual Interface.

BX.25
AT&T implementation of X.25. See also X.25.

BXM
Broadband Switch Module.


CA
1. certification authority.
2. Telecommunications: call appearance.

CAC
connection admission control. Set of actions taken by each ATM switch during
connection setup in order to determine whether a connection’s requested QoS will
violate the QoS guarantees for established connections. CAC is also used when routing
a connection request through an ATM network.

Cache
A group of memory locations set aside for temporary storage ofdata, especially frequently-used data or data needing high speedretrieval by the CPU.

CAF
controllable ATM fabric.

cage
Piece of hardware into which cards are installed.

Call Detail Record
See CDR in the “Cisco Systems Terms and Acronyms” section.

call leg
Discrete segment of a call connection. A call leg is a logical connection between the
router and either a telephony endpoint over a bearer channel, or another endpoint using
a session protocol.

call reference value
See CRV.

CAP
Competitive Access Provider. Independent company providing local
telecommunications services mainly to business customers in competition with an
area’s BOC or IOC. Teleport and MFS are the two major CAPs operating in major
metropolitan areas in the United States. See also BOC and IOC.

carrier sense multiple access collision detect
See CSI.

CAS
channel associated signaling

CCOT
cross office transfer time

CCR
commitment, concurrency, and recovery. OSI application service element used to create
atomic operations across distributed systems. Used primarily to implement two-phase
commit for transactions and nonstop operations.

CDF
channel definition format. Technology for “push” applications on the World Wide Web.
CDF is an application of XML. See XML.

CDR-call detail record Contains data unique to a specific call, such as origination, termination, length, and time
of day.

CDV
cell delay variation. Component of cell transfer delay, which is induced by buffering and
cell scheduling. CDV is a QoS delay parameter associated with CBR and VBR service.
See also CBR and VBR.

CEF
See CEF in the in the “Cisco Systems Terms and Acronyms” section.

cell delay variation
See CDV.

cell loss ratio
See CLR.

cell transfer delay
See CTD.

CELP
code excited linear prediction compression. Compression algorithm used in low bit-rate
voice encoding. Used in ITU-T Recommendations G.728, G.729, G.723.1.

CER
cell error ratio. In ATM, the ratio of transmitted cells

CERN
European Laboratory for Particle Physics. Birthplace of the World Wide Web.

CERT
Computer Emergency Response Team. Chartered to work with the Internet community
to facilitate its response to computer security events involving Internet hosts, to take
proactive steps to raise the community’s awareness of computer security issues, and to
conduct research targeted at improving the security of existing systems. The U.S. CERT
is based at Carnegie Mellon University in Pittsburgh (United States), Regional CERTs
are, like NICs, springing up in different parts of the world.

CES
circuit emulation service. Enables users to multiplex or concentrate multiple circuit
emulation streams for voice and video with packet data on a single high-speed ATM link
without a separate ATM access multiplexer.

CFRAD
See Cisco FRAD in the “Cisco Systems Terms and Acronyms” section.

CGI
Common Gateway Interface. Set of rules that describe how a Web server communicates
with another application running on the same computer and how the application (called
a CGI program) communicates with the Web server. Any application can be a CGI
program if it handles input and output according to the CGI standard.

channel
1. Communication path. Multiple channels can be multiplexed over a single cable in
certain environments.
2. In IBM, the specific path between large computers (such as mainframes) and attached
peripheral devices.
3. Specific frequency allocation and bandwidth. Downstream channels are used for
television in the United States are 6 MHz wide.

channel definition format.
See CDF.

Channel Interface Processor
See CIP in the “Cisco Systems Terms and Acronyms” section.

channel service unit
See CSU.

child peer group
Peer group for which another peer group is the parent peer group. See also LGN, peer
group, and parent peer group.

circuit steering
Mechanism used by some ATM switches to eavesdrop on a virtual connection and copy
its cells to another port where an ATM analyzer is attached. Also known as port
snooping.

C-ISUP
See C-ISUP in the “Cisco Systems Terms and Acronyms” section. See also ISUP.

Cisco Link Services
See CLS in the “Cisco Systems Terms and Acronyms” section.

Cisco Link Services Interface
See CLSI in the “Cisco Systems Terms and Acronyms” section.

Cisco-trunk (private line) call
See Cisco-trunk (private line) call in the “Cisco Systems Terms and Acronyms” section.

CIX
Commercial Internet Exchange. A connection point between the commercial Internet
service providers. Pronounced “kicks.” See FIX and GIX.

clear channel
Channel that uses out-of-band signaling (as opposed to in-band signaling), so the
channel’s entire bit rate is available.

CLEC
competitive local exchange carrier. Company that builds and operates communication
networks in metropolitan areas and provides its customers with an alternative to the
local telephone company. See CAP

CLR
cell loss ratio. In ATM, the ratio of discarded cells to cells that are successfully
transmitted. CLR can be set as a QoS parameter when a connection is set up.

CLTP
Connectionless Transport Protocol. Provides for end-to-end Transport data addressing
(via Transport selector) and error control (via checksum), but cannot guarantee delivery
or provide flow control. The OSI equivalent of UDP.

CMI
1. coded mark inversion. ITU-T line coding technique specified for STS-3c
transmissions. Also used in DS-1 systems. See also DS-1 and STS-3c.
2. control mode idle?

codec
coder-decoder.
1. Integrated circuit device that typically uses pulse code modulation to transform
analog signals into a digital bit stream and digital signals back into analog signals.
2. In Voice over IP, Voice over Frame Relay, and Voice over ATM, a DSP software
algorithm used to compress/decompress speech or audio signals.

CO FRAD
central office frame relay access device.

CO-IPX
Connection Oriented IPX. Native ATM protocol based on IPX under development by
Novell.

Common Gateway Interface
See CGI.

community name
See community string.

CONF
configuration failure. Resource is OOS because its provisioning information is
inconsistent.

Conférence Européenne des Postes et des Télécommunications
See CEPT.

configuration direct VCC
In ATM, a bi-directional point-to-point VCC set up by a LEC to an LES. One of three
control connections defined by Phase 1 LANE. Compare with control distribute VCC
and control direct VCC.

configuration tool
1. Service management tool with a GUI.
2. Element management service tool with a GUI.

congestion collapse
Condition in which the retransmission of frames in an ATM network results in little or
no traffic successfully arriving at the destination. Congestion collapse frequently occurs
in ATM networks composed of switches that do not have adequate and effective
buffering mechanisms complimented by intelligent packet discard or ABR congestion
feedback mechanisms.

connection admission control
See CAC.

CONS
connection-oriented network service.

Context-based Access Control
See CCB.

control direct VCC
In ATM, a bidirectional VCC set up by a LEC to a LES. One of three control
connections defined by Phase 1 LANE. Compare with configuration direct VCC and
control distribute VCC.

control distribute VCC
In ATM, a unidirectional VCC set up from a LES to a LEC. One of three control
connections defined by Phase 1 LANE. Typically, the VCC is a point-to-multipoint
connection. Compare with configuration direct VCC and control direct VCC.

converged infrastructure
sometimes known as converged architecture, is an approach to data center management that packages compute, networking, servers, storage and virtualization tools on a prequalified turnkey appliance. Converged systems include a toolkit of management software. 
Also see: Platform-as-a-service

cookie
Piece of information sent by a Web server to a Web browser that the browser is expected
to save and send back to the Web server whenever the browser makes additional requests
of the Web server.

COOS
Commanded OOS. A resource is OOS because it was entered as a command. See also
OOS in the “Cisco Systems Terms and Acronyms” section.

COPS
Common Open Policy Service. Quality-of-service (QoS) policy exchange protocol
proposed as an IETF standard for communicating network QoS policy information.

CORBA
Common Object Request Broker Architecture. OMG’s answer to the need for
interoperability among the rapidly proliferating number of hardware and software
products available today. Simply stated, CORBA allows applications to communicate
with one another no matter where they are located or who has designed them. See IIOP

Corporation for Research and Educational Networking
See CREN

COS
Corporation for Open Systems. Organization that promulgates the use of OSI protocols
through conformance testing, certification, and related activities.

COT
Continuity Test. Requirement of the SS7 protocol specifications. It tests the bearer
channels’ status using either loopback or tone detection and generation. Used to test
individual DS0 channels via either loopback or tone detection and generation.

CPC
calling party category

CPNIE
called party number information element.

CPP
See CPP (Combinet Proprietary Protocol) in the “Cisco Systems Terms and Acronyms”
section.

CQ
custom queuing.

craft interface device
See CID.

crankback
A mechanism used by ATM networks when a connection setup request is blocked
because a node along a selected path cannot accept the request. In this case, the path is
rolled back to an intermediate node, which attempts to discover another path to the final
destination using GCAC. See also GCAC.

CRF
Concentrator Relay Function CRMcell rate margin. One of three link attributes
exchanged using PTSPs to determine the available resources of an ATM network. CRM
is a measure of the difference between the effective bandwidth allocation per traffic
class as the allocation for sustainable cell rate.

CRL
certificate revocation list.

CRV
call reference value. Number carried in all Q.931 (I.451) messages that provides an
identifier for each ISDN call.

CS-ACELP
Conjugate Structure Algebraic Code Excited Linear Prediction. CELP voice
compression algorithm providing 8 Kbps, or 8:1 compression, standardized in ITU-T
Recommendation G.729.

CSI
called subscriber identification. An identifier whose coding format contains the
telephone number from a remote fax terminal.

CSM
call switching module.

CTD
cell transfer delay. In ATM, the elapsed time between a cell exit event at the source UNI
and the corresponding cell entry event at the destination UNI for a particular connection.
The CTD between the two points is the sum of the total inter-ATM node transmission
delay and the total ATM node processing delay.

CTI
computer telephony integration. Name given to the merger of traditional
telecommunications (PBX) equipment with computers and computer applications. The
use of Caller ID to automatically retrieve customer information from a database is an
example of a CTI application.

CU
coding unit. Type of access device. (See access device.)

Cyberspace
Term coined by William Gibson in his fantasy novel Neuromancer to describe the
“world” of computers and the society that gathers around them. Often used to refer to
the Internet, the World Wide Web, or some combination thereof.



DAP
Directory Access Protocol. Protocol used between a DUA and a DSA in an X.500
directory system. See LDAP.

DATABASE2
See DB2.

data direct VCC
In ATM, a bi-directional point-to-point VCC set up between two LECs. One of three
data connections defined by Phase 1 LANE. Data direct VCCs do not offer any type of
QOS guarantee, so they are typically used for UBR and ABR connections. Compare
with control distribute VCC and control direct VCC.

Datakit
AT&T proprietary packet switching system widely deployed by the RBOCs.

DB2
IBM relational database management system.

dBm
decibles per milliwatt.

D Channel
1. Data channel. Full-duplex, 16-kbps (BRI) or 64-kbps (PRI) ISDN channel. Compare to B channel, E channel, and H channel. 2. In SNA, a device that connects a processor and main storage with peripherals.

DCOM
Distributed Component Object Model. Protocol that enables software components to
communicate directly over a network. Developed by Microsoft and previously called
Network OLE, DCOM is designed for use across multiple network transports, including
Internet protocols such as HTTP. See IIOP.

DCS
Digital Crossconnect System. Network element providing automatic cross-connection
of a digital signal or its constituent parts.

DCT
discrete cosine transform.

DDM
Distributed Data Management. Software in an IBM SNA environment that provides peer-to-peer communication and file sharing. One of three SNA transaction services. See also DIA and SNADS.

DDN
Defense Data Network. US. military network composed of an unclassified network (MILNET) and various secret and top-secret networks. DDN is operated and maintained by DISA. See also DISA and MILNET.

DDP
Datagram Delivery Protocol. Apple Computer network layer protocol that is responsible for the socket-to-socket delivery of datagrams over an AppleTalk internetwork.

DDR
Dial-on-demand routing. Technique whereby a Cisco router can automatically initiate and close a circuit-switched session as transmitting stations demand. The router spoofs keepalives so that end stations treat the session as active. DDR permits routing over ISDN or telephone lines using an external ISDN terminal adapter or modem.

DECnet routing
Proprietary routing scheme introduced by Digital Equipment Corporation in DECnet
Phase III. In DECnet Phase V, DECnet completed its transition to OSI routing protocols
(ES-IS and IS-IS).

Defense Communications Agency
See dBm

DEK
data encryption key. Used for the encryption of message text and for the computation of
message integrity checks (signatures).

deprecated term
A term that is no longer approved for use. Typically, deprecated terms are replaced with a new term or a synonym.

DE
Discard eligible. See tagged traffic.

Device Driver
Software that acts as an intermediary between a CPU and aperipheral device. The CPU sends a command to the devicedriver, which translates that command into a command meaningful to the peripheral device.

directed tree
Logical construct used to define data streams or flows. The origin of a data stream is the
root. Data streams are unidirectional branches directed away from the root and toward
targets, and targets are the leaves of the directed tree.

Distributed Relational Database Architecture
See DRDA.

DIT
Directory Information Tree. Global tree of entries corresponding to information objects
in the OSI X.500 Directory

DLL
Dynamically Linked Libraries. A component of Microsoft’s OLE.

DN
Distinguished Name. Global, authoritative name of an entry in the OSI Directory
(X.500).

DOCSIS
Data-over-Cable Service Interface Specifications. Defines technical specifications for
equipment at both subscriber locations and cable operators’ headends. Adoption of
DOCSIS will accelerate deployment of data-over-cable services and ensure
interoperability of equipment throughout system operators’ infrastructures.

Downsizing
The transfer of computing tasks previously performed by main frame or minicomputers to personal computers.

DRDA
Distributed Relational Database Architecture. IBM proprietary architecture.

DRP
See DRP (Director Response Protocol) in the “Cisco Systems Terms and Acronyms”
section.

Dry Contact
No current: A dry contact is the synonym of volt free - it is not "wetted" by a voltage source. Dry contact can refer to a secondary set of contacts of a relay circuit which does not make or break the primary current being controlled by the relay. Usually some other contacts or devices have the job of starting or stopping the primary current being controlled.

DSA
Directory System Agent. Software that provides the X.500 Directory Service for a
portion of the directory information base. Generally, each DSA is responsible for the
directory information for a single organization or organizational unit.

DSL
digital subscriber line. Public network technology that delivers high bandwidth over
conventional copper wiring at limited distances. There are four types of DSL: ADSL,
HDSL, SDSL, and VDSL. All are provisioned via modem pairs, with one modem
located at a central office and the other at the customer site. Because most DSL
technologies do not use the whole bandwidth of the twisted pair, there is room
remaining for a voice channel. See also ADSL, HDSL, SDSL, and VDSL.

DUA
Directory User Agent. Software that accesses the X.500 Directory Service on behalf of
the directory user. The directory user can be a person or another software element.

Dynamic Buffer Management
Frame Relay and ATM service modules are equipped with large buffers and the patented
Dynamic Buffer Management scheme for allocating and scaling traffic entering or
leaving a node on a per-VC basis. The WAN switch dynamically assigns buffers to
individual virtual circuits based upon the amount of traffic present and service-level
agreements. This deep pool of available buffers readily accommodates large bursts of
traffic into the node.

Dynamic IISP
Dynamic Interim-Interswitch Signaling Protocol. Basic call routing protocol that
automatically reroutes ATM connections in the event of link failures. Dynamic IISP is
an interim solution until PNNI Phase 1 is completed. Contrast with IISP.



E&M
recEive and transMit (or ear and mouth). Trunking arrangement generally used for
two-way switch-to-switch or switch-to-network connections. Cisco’s analog E&M
interface is an RJ-48 connector that allows connections to PBX trunk lines (tie lines).
E&M is also available on E1 and T1 digital interfaces.

E2A
Legacy protocols for providing OAM&P functions between a network element and an
operations support system. See also OAM&P.

Echo Protocol
In the AppleTalk protocol family, a protocol that allows a computer to return test packets. The purpose of Echo Protocol is t testthe delivery conditions to a remote node, including reachability,reliability and round trip time.

early packet discard
See EPD.

EBONE
European Backbone. Pan-European network backbone service.

EC
European Community.

EECM
end-to-end call manager

EFCI
Explicit Forward Congestion Indication. In ATM, one of the congestion feedback
modes allowed by ABR service. A network element in an impending congestion state
or in a congested state can set the EFCI. The destination end-system can implement a
protocol that adaptively lowers the cell rate of the connection based on the value of the
EFCI. See also ABR.

EFF
Electronic Frontier Foundation. Foundation established to address social and legal
issues arising from the impact on society of the increasingly pervasive use of computers
as the means of communication and information distribution.

EIA/TIA-568
Standard that describes the characteristics and applications for various grades of UTP
cabling. See also Category 1 cabling, Category 2 cabling, Category 3 cabling,
Category 4 cabling, Category 5 cabling, and UTC.

electrically erasable programmable read-only memory
See EECM.

Electronic Frontier Foundation
See EFF.

ELMI
Enhanced Local Management Interface.

endpoint
H.323 terminal or gateway. An endpoint can call and be called. It generates and
terminates the information stream.

entity identifier
The unique address of an NVEs socket in a node on an AppleTalk network. The specific
format of an entity identifier is network-dependent. See also NVE.

entity name
Name that an NVE can assign to itself. Although not all NVEs have names, NVEs can
possess several names (or aliases). An entity name is made up of three character strings:
object, entity type, and zone. For example: Bldg 2 LaserJet 5:LaserWriter@Bldg 2
Zone. See also NVE.

entity type
Part of an entity name that describes the entity’s class. For example, LaserWriter or
AFPServer. See also entity name.

Entropy
1. A measure of the disorder of a system. 2. The thermodynamictendency of a system to reduce its overall energy state by increasing its disorder. Theoretically, an equilibrium is reached where the energy reduction that can be gained by a further increase in entropy is offset by the energy necessary to contain that increase.

EOM
end of message. Indicator that identifies the last ATM cell containing information from
a data packet that was segmented.

EPD
early packet discard. Mechanism used by some ATM switches for discarding a complete
AAL5 frame when a threshold condition, such as imminent congestion, is met. EPD
prevents congestion that would otherwise jeopardize the switch’s ability to properly
support existing connections with a guaranteed service. Compare with TPD.

ER
explicit rate. In ATM, an RM cell used to limit the ACR for a transmission to a specific
value. Usually the source initially sets the ER initially to a requested rate, such as the
PCR. Later, any network element in the path can reduce the ER to a value that the
element can sustain. See also ACOM, PCR, and RLM.

ESI
end system identifier. Identifier that distinguishes multiple nodes at the same level when
the lower level peer group is partitioned (usually an IEEE 802 address).

ESP
Extended Services Processor

ethernet meltdown
Event that causes saturation, or near saturation, on an Ethernet. It usually results from
illegal or misrouted packets and typically lasts only a short time.

EWOS
European Workshop for Open Systems. The OSI Implementors Workshop for Europe.

explicit forward congestion indication
See EFCI.

explicit rate
See ER.

Extended Services Processor
See ESP in the “Cisco Systems Terms and Acronyms” section.

EXZ
excessive zeros.


FARNET
Federation of American Research NETworks.

Finger
A collection of software routines used by computers running theIP protocol stack, which allows a user to read public informationabout a user on the same, or a remote machine, often including:full name, telephone number and extension, snail-mail address,time and place of last login, whether user has any pending un-read mail, and witticisms selected by the user.

F-link
SS7 fully associated link. An SS7 signaling link directly associated with a link carrying
traffic.

flowspec
In IPv6, the traffic parameters of a stream of IP packets between two applications. See
also IPv6.

FLT
Full Line Terminal. Multiplexer that terminates a SONET span. See also SONET.

FOTS
Fiber Optics Transmission Systems. Vendor-proprietary fiber-optic transmission
equipment.

Fog computing
A term created by Cisco that refers to extending cloud computing to the edge of an enterprise’s network.

frame check sequence
See FCFS.

FRASM
Frame Relay access service module.

freenet
Community-based bulletin board system with e-mail, information services, interactive
communications, and conferencing.

FRF
Frame Relay Forum. An association of corporate members consisting of vendors,
carriers, users and consultants committed to the implementation of Frame Relay in
accordance with national and international standards. See www.frforum.com.

FRF.11
Frame Relay Forum implementation agreement for Voice over Frame Relay (v1.0 May
1997). This specification defines multiplexed data, voice, fax, DTMF digit-relay and
CAS/Robbed-bit signaling frame formats, but does not include call setup, routing or
administration facilities. See www.frforum.com.

FRF.11 Annex C
See FRF.12.

FRF11-trunk
Point to point permanent voice connection (private line) conforming to the FRF.11
specification.

FRF.12
The FRF.12 Implementation Agreement (also known as FRF.11 Annex C) was
developed to allow long data frames to be fragmented into smaller pieces and
interleaved with real-time frames. In this way, real-time voice and non real-time data
frames can be carried together on lower speed links without causing excessive delay to
the real-time traffic. See www.frforum.com.

FRMR
Frame REJECT.

fully qualified domain name
See FQDN.

FUNI
frame user network interface.

Fuzzball
Digital Equipment Corporation LSI-11 computer system running IP gateway software. The NSFnet used these systems as backbone packet switches.

FXO
Foreign Exchange Office. An FXO interface connects to the Public Switched Telephone
Network’s (PSTN) central office and is the interface offered on a standard telephone.
Cisco’s FXO interface is an RJ-11 connector that allows an analog connection to be
directed at the PSTN’s central office or to a station interface on a PBX.

FXS
Foreign Exchange Station. An FXS interface connects directly to a standard telephone
and supplies ring, voltage, and dial tone. Cisco’s FXS interface is an RJ-11 connector
that allows connections to basic telephone service equipment, keysets, and PBXes.

G.711
Describes the 64-kbps PCM voice coding technique. In G.711, encoded voice is already
in the correct format for digital voice delivery in the PSTN or through PBXs. Described
in the ITU-T standard in its G-series recommendations.

G.723.1
Describes a compression technique that can be used for compressing speech or audio
signal components at a very low bit rate as part of the H.324 family of standards. This
CODEC has two bit rates associated with it: 5.3 and 6.3 kbps. The higher bit rate is
based on ML-MLQ technology and provides a somewhat higher quality of sound. The
lower bit rate is based on CELP and provides system designers with additional
flexibility. Described in the ITU-T standard in its G-series recommendations.

G.726
Describes ADPCM coding at 40, 32, 24, and 16 kbps. ADPCM-encoded voice can be
interchanged between packet voice, PSTN, and PBX networks if the PBX networks are
configured to support ADPCM. Described in the ITU-T standard in its G-series
recommendations.

G.728
Describes a 16-kbps low-delay variation of CELP voice compression. CELP voice
coding must be translated into a public telephony format for delivery to or through the
PSTN. Described in the ITU-T standard in its G-series recommendations.

G.729
Describes CELP compression where voice is coded into 8-kbps streams. There are two
variations of this standard (G.729 and G.729 Annex A) that differ mainly in
computational complexity; both provide speech quality similar to 32-kbps ADPCM.
Described in the ITU-T standard in its G-series recommendations.

Gatekeeper
1. Component of an H.323 conferencing system that performs call address resolution,
admission control, and subnet bandwidth management.
2. Telecommunications: H.323 entity on a LAN that provides address translation and
control access to the LAN for H.323 terminals and gateways. The gatekeeper can
provide other services to the H.323 terminals and gateways, such as bandwidth
management and locating gateways. A gatekeeper maintains a registry of devices in the
multimedia network. The devices register with the gatekeeper at startup and request
admission to a call from the gatekeeper.

GCAC
generic connection admission control. In ATM, a PNNI algorithm designed for CBR
and VBR connections. Any node can use GCAC to calculate the expected CAC
behavior of another node given than node’s advertised link metrics and the QoS of a
connection setup request. See also CAC.

GCRA
generic cell rate algorithm. In ATM, an algorithm that defines conformance with respect
to the traffic contract of the connection. For each cell arrival, the GCRA determines
whether the cell conforms to the traffic contract.

generic connection admission control
See GCAC.

Get
In SNMP, a command given by the Console to retrieve a single data structure from a MIB.

Get Nearest Server
See GNS.


GIX
Global Internet eXchange. Common routing exchange point which allows pairs of
networks to implement agreed-upon routing policies. The GIX is intended to allow
maximum connectivity to the Internet for networks all over the world. See CIX, FIX, and
MAE.

gleaning
Process by which a router automatically derives AARP table entries from incoming
packets. Gleaning speeds up the process of populating the AARP table. See also AARP.

goodput
Generally referring to the measurement of actual data successfully transmitted from the
sender(s) to receiver(s). This is often a more useful measurement than the number of
ATM cells per second throughput of an ATM switch if that switch is experiencing cell
loss that results in many incomplete, and therefore unusable, frames arriving at the
recipient.

Gopher
distributed document delivery system. The Internet Gopher allows a neophyte user to
access various types of data residing on multiple hosts in a seamless fashion.

Group 3
Standard created by the International Telecommunications Union Telecommunications
(ITU-T) relating to fax devices. A Group 3 fax device is a digital machine containing a
14400 baud modem that can transmit an 8 1/2 by 11 inch page in approximately
20 seconds with a resolution of either 203 by 98 dots per inch (dpi) or 203 by 196 dpi
(fine), using Huffman code to compress fax data. Group 3 faxes use a standard dial-up
telephone line for transmission.

GSS
Generic Service State.



H.225.0
An ITU standard that governs H.225.0 session establishment and packetization. H.225.0
actually describes several different protocols: RAS, use of Q.931, and use of RTP.

H.245
An ITU standard that governs H.245 endpoint control.

H.320
Suite of ITU-T standard specifications for videoconferencing over circuit-switched
media such as ISDN, fractional T-1, and switched-56 lines.

H.323
Extension of ITU-T standard H.320 that enables videoconferencing over LANs and
other packet-switched networks, as well as video over the Internet.

H.323 RAS
registration, admission, and status. The RAS signaling protocol performs registration,
admissions, bandwidth changes, and status and disengage procedures between the VoIP
gateway and the gatekeeper.

hairpin
Telephony term that means to send a call back in the direction that it came from. For
example, if a call cannot be routed over IP to a gateway that is closer to the target
telephone, the call is typically sent back out the local zone, back the way it came from.

Hands-Off Infrastructure Management (HOIM)
Hands-off infrastructure management is the remote, automated administration of server, storage and network resources. Products that are marketed as “hands-off” means they have been designed and configured to run with minimal human assistance. The term is often used by vendors to imply that a given system can, for the most part, run by itself. It may have artificial intelligence (AI) capabilities built in and use machine learning algorithms to correlate events in the IT infrastructure with problems in application and business environments.

Heap
The RAM memory allocated by system software and system extensions to hold frequently used instructions and data not contained in ROM or firmware.

heartbeat
See SQE.

HEC
header error control. Algorithm for checking and correcting an error in an ATM cell.
Using the fifth octet in the ATM cell header, ATM equipment will check for an error and
correct the contents of the header. The check character is calculated using a CRC
algorithm allowing a single bit error in the header to be corrected or multiple errors to
be detected.

HFC
hybrid fiber-coaxial. Technology being developed by the cable TV industry to provide
two-way, high-speed data access to the home using a combination of fiber optics and
traditional coaxial cable.

HFS
Hierarchical File System.

hierarchical addressing
Scheme of addressing that uses a logical hierarchy to determine location. For example,
IP addresses consist of network numbers, subnet numbers, and host numbers, which IP
routing algorithms use to route the packet to the appropriate location. Compare with flat
addressing.

Hint
In dynamic addressing, an address that a node will test for uniqueness first. The hint is either the last successful address the node used previously (the Macintosh keeps such a hint in PRAM) or a particular address that is specific to a particular model of device (the GatorBox always tries 128 first or LocalTalk networks).

hookflash
Short on-hook period usually generated by a telephone-like device during a call to
indicate that the telephone is attempting to perform a dial-tone recall from a PBX.
Hookflash is often used to perform call transfer.

hop count
Routing metric used to measure the distance between a source and a destination. RIP
uses hop count as its sole metric. See also hookflash and RIP.

Hop Distance
A unit of measure used to express the number or routers that a packet must pass through its way to its destination.

hop off
Point at which a call transitions from H.323 to non-H.323, typically at a gateway.

hyperlink
Pointer within a hypertext document that points (links) to another document, which may
or may not also be a hypertext document.

Hypertext Transfer Protocol
See HTTP.


IAHC
Internet International Ad Hoc Committee. Coalition of participants from the broad
Internet community, working to satisfy the requirement for enhancements to the
Internet’s global DNS. Organizations naming members to the committee include
Internet Society (ISOC), Internet Assigned Numbers Authority (IANA), Internet
Architecture Board (IAB), Federal Networking Council (FNC), International
Telecommunication Union (ITU), International Trademark Association (INTA), and
World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO).

ICP cell
IMA control protocol cell used for aligning the cells in multiple links.

ICR
initial cell rate.

I-D
Internet-Draft. Working documents of the IETF, from its Areas and Working Groups.
They are valid for a maximum of 6 months and might be updated, replaced, or obsoleted
by other documents at any time. Very often, I-Ds are precursors to RFCs.

IE
information element.

IEPG
Internet Engineering Planning Group. Group, primarily composed of Internet service
operators, whose goal is to promote a globally coordinated Internet operating
environment. Membership is open to all.

I-frame
Information frame. One of three SDLC frame formats. See also S-frame and U-frame.

Impedance
A measure of the opposition to the flow of an alternating signal by its media.

IKE
Internet Key Exchange

INE
Intelligent Network Element. Network element that can be provisioned from a remote
OSS.

input/output
See IN/AIN.

INTAP
Interoperability Technology Association for Information Processing. Technical
organization that has the official charter to develop Japanese OSI profiles and
conformance tests.

Integrated Services Internet
IETF proposal for enhancing IP to allow it to support integrated or multimedia services,
including traffic management mechanisms that closely match the traffic management
mechanisms of ATM. An example is RSVP.

Integrated Services Internet
IETF proposal for enhancing IP to allow it to support integrated or multimedia services,
including traffic management mechanisms that closely match the traffic management
mechanisms of ATM. An example is RSVP.

Intelligent QoS Management Suite
Composed of Automatic Routing Management, Advanced CoS Management,
Optimized Bandwidth Management, and Dynamic Buffer Management. Formerly
called Advanced Networking Features.

Internet-Draft
See I-D.

Internet Engineering Planning Group
See IEPG.

Internet Protocol (IP, IPv4)
Network layer for the TCP/IP protocol suite. Internet Protocol (version 4) is a
connectionless, best-effort packet switching protocol. Defined in RFC 791.

Internet Protocol (IPng, IPv6)
See IPv6.

Internet Registry
See IR.

Internet Relay Chat
See IRC.

Internet telephony
Generic term used to describe various approaches to running voice telephony over IP.

Internet Socket
In AppleTalk, the combination of network, node and socket

Inter-Switch Link
See ISL in the “Cisco Systems Terms and Acronyms” section.

inverse multiplexing
Process whereby physical links are grouped to form a higher-bandwidth logical link
whose rate is approximately the sum of the individual link rates.

IOC
independent operating company. Independently owned company providing local
telephone services to residential and business customers in a geographic area not served
by an RBOC.

IOCC
I/O channel controller.

IONL
Internal Organization of the Network Layer. OSI standard for the detailed architecture
of the network layer. Basically, it partitions the network layer into subnetworks
interconnected by convergence protocols (equivalent to internet working protocols),
creating what the Internet community calls a catenet or internet.

IPC
interprocess communication.

IPCP
IP Control Protocol. Protocol that establishes and configures IP over PPP. See also IP
and PPP.

IPng
See IPv6.

IPXCP
IPX Control Protocol. Protocol that establishes and configures IPX over PPP. See also
IPX and PPP.

IR
Internet Registry. IR was delegated the responsibility of network address and
autonomuous system identifiers from the IANA, which has the discretionary authority
to delegate portions of its responsibility.

IRB
integrated routing and bridging
Integrated Services Digital Network (ISDN) User Part. An upper-layer application
supported by SS7 for connection set up and tear down.

IRC
Internet Relay Chat. World-wide “party line” protocol that allows one to converse with
others in real time. IRC is structured as a network of servers, each of which accepts
connections from client programs, one per user.

ISL
See ISL (Inter-Switch Link) in the “Cisco Systems Terms and Acronyms” section.

ISM
internetwork status monitor .

ISP
Internet service provider. Company that provides Internet access to other companies and
individuals.

ISUP
ISDN User Part.

IVR
interactive voice response. Term used to describe systems that provide information in
the form of recorded messages over telephone lines in response to user input in the form
of spoken words or more commonly DTMF signaling. Examples include banks that
allow you to check your balance from any telephone and automated stock quote
systems.

IXC
inter-exchange carrier. Common carrier providing long distance connectivity between
LATAs. The three major IXCs are AT&T, MCI, and Sprint, but several hundred IXCs
offer long distance service in the United States.

Java
Object-oriented programming language developed at Sun Microsystems to solve a
number of problems in modern programming practice. The Java language is used
extensively on World-Wide Web, particularly for applets.

JDBC
Java Database Connectivity. Java API that enables Java programs to execute SQL
statements. This allows Java programs to interact with any SQL-compliant database.
Since nearly all relational database management systems (DBMSs) support SQL, and
because Java itself runs on most platforms, JDBC makes it possible to write a single
database application that can run on different platforms and interact with different
DBMSs. JDBC is similar to ODBC, but is designed specifically for Java programs,
whereas ODBC is language-independent. JDBC was developed by JavaSoft, a
subsidiary of Sun Microsystems. See ODBC.


KA9Q
Popular implementation of TCP/IP and associated protocols for amateur packet radio
systems.

Kerberos
Developing standard for authenticating network users. Kerberos offers two key benefits:
it functions in a multivendor network, and it does not transmit passwords over the
network.

Kludge
A word used to describe a solution to a problem that lacks elegance or that contains components for a purpose significantly different that their original design purpose.

kVA
kilovoltampere.


L2F Protocol
Layer 2 Forwarding Protocol. Protocol that supports the creation of secure virtual
private dial-up networks over the Internet.

LANE UNI
LANE User-Network Interface.

LAP
Link Access Protocol. Any protocol of the Data Link Layer, such as EtherTalk.

LaserWriter
Any of a group of laser printers that uses PostScript as an imaging language and can communicate using AppleTalk protocols.

Layer 3 Switching
Emerging Layer 3 switching technology that integrates routing with switching to yield
very high routing throughput rates in the millions-of-packets- per-second range. The
movement to Layer 3 switching is designed to address the downsides of the current
generation of layer 2 switches, which are functionally equivalent to bridges. These
downsides for a large, flat network include being subject to broadcast storms, spanning
tree loops, and address limitations.

LCP
link control protocol. Protocol that establishes, configures, and tests data-link
connections for use by PPP. See also PPP.

LCV
line code violation. Occurrence of a BPV or EXZ error event.

LDAP
Lightweight Directory Access Protocol. Protocol that provides access for management
and browser applications that provide read/write interactive access to the X.500
Directory.

LDCELP
low-delay CELP. CELP voice compression algorithm providing 16 Kbps, or 4:1
compression. Standardized in ITU-T Recommendation G.728.

leaky bucket
In ATM, a metaphor for the GCRA, which is used for conformance checking of cell
flows from a user or network. The hole in the bucket represents the sustained rate at
which cells can be accommodated, and the bucket depth represents the tolerance for cell
bursts over a period of time. See also GCRA.

LGN
logical group node. The node that represents its peer group in the peer group’s parent
peer group. See also parent peer group and peer group.

line card
Any I/O card that can be inserted in a modular chassis.

line code violation
See LCV.

LIS
logical IP subnet. A group of IP nodes (such as hosts and routers) that connects to a
single ATM network and belongs to the same IP subnet.

listserv
Automated mailing list distribution system originally designed for the Bitnet/EARN
network. Allows users to add or delete themselves from mailing lists without (other)
human intervention.

LLAP
LocalTalk Link Access Protocol. Link-level protocol that manages node-to-node
delivery of data on a LocalTalk network. LLAP manages bus access, provides a
node-addressing mechanism, and controls data transmission and reception, ensuring
packet length and integrity. See also LocalTalk.

LNNI
LAN Emulation Network-to-Network Interface. Supports communication between the
server components within a single ELAN. Phase 1 LANE protocols do not allow for the
standard support of multiple LESs or BUSs within an ELAN. Phase 2 addresses these
limitations.

local adjacency
See local adjacency in the “Cisco Systems Terms and Acronyms” section.

LocalTalk Link Access Protocol
See LLAP.

logical group node
See LGN.

Loopback packet
A test packet sent by a network adapter with a destination address equal to the adapter’s own hardware address. The purpose of this test is typically to establish that the adapter is connected to a network that is functional enough to support a data transmission.

LUNI
LAN Emulation User-to-Network Interface. The ATM Forum standard for LAN
emulation on ATM networks. Defines the interface between the LEC and the LAN
Emulation Server components. See also BUS, LES, and LECS.


MAE
metropolitan access exchange. One of a number of Internet exchange points. Examples
include MAE West and MAE East. See also CIX, FIX, and GIX.

mail bridge
Mail gateway that forwards e-mail between two or more networks while ensuring that
the messages it forwards meet certain administrative criteria. A mail bridge is simply a
specialized form of mail gateway that enforces an administrative policy with regard to
what mail it forwards.

mail gateway
Machine that connects two or more electronic mail systems (especially dissimilar mail
systems on two different networks) and transfers messages between them. Sometimes
the mapping and translation can be quite complex, and generally it requires a
store-and-forward scheme whereby the message is received from one system
completely before it is transmitted to the next system after suitable translations.
mail exchange record
See MX record.

mail exploder
Part of an e-mail delivery system that allows a message to be delivered to a list of
addressees. Mail exploders are used to implement mailing lists. Users send messages to
a single address (for example, hacks@somehost.edu), and the mail exploder takes care
of delivery to the individual mailboxes in the list.

MAPI
Microsoft Application Programming Interface. A programming library for Windows developers that provides messaging services to their applications.

MARS
Multicast Address Resolution Server. Mechanism for supporting IP multicast. A MARS
serves a group of nodes (known as a cluster); each node in the cluster is configured with
the ATM address of the MARS. The MARS supports multicast through multicast
messages of overlaid point-to-multipoint connections or through multicast servers.

Martian
Humorous term applied to packets that turn up unexpectedly on the wrong network
because of bogus routing entries. Also used as a name for a packet that has an altogether
bogus (nonregistered or ill-formed) Internet address.

MSL
Maximum Segment Lifetime.

MSS
Maximum Segment Size.

MCDV
maximum cell delay variation. In an ATM network, the maximum two-point CDV
objective across a link or node for the specified service category. One of four link
metrics exchanged using PTSPs to determine the available resources of an ATM
network. There is one MCDV value for each traffic class. See also CDV and PTSP.

MCLR
maximum cell loss ratio. In an ATM network, the maximum ratio of cells that do not
successfully transit a link or node compared with the total number of cells that arrive at
the link or node. One of four link metrics exchanged using PTSPs to determine the
available resources of an ATM network. The MCLR applies to cells in the CBR and
VBR traffic classes whose CLP bit is set to zero. See also CBR, CLP, PTSP, and VBR.

MCNS
Multimedia Cable Network System Partners Ltd. Consortium of cable companies
providing service to the majority of homes in the United States and Canada. This
consortium drives a standard with the goal of having interoperable cable modems.

MCTD
maximum cell transfer delay. In an ATM network, the sum of the MCDV and the fixed
delay component across the link or node. One of four link metrics exchanged using
PTSPs to determine the available resources of an ATM network. There is one MCTD
value for each traffic class. See also MCDV and PTSP.

MD
mediation device. Device that provides protocol translation and concentration of
telemetry information originating from multiple network elements and transport to an
OSS. See also OSS.

MDL
The TransPath Message Definition Language. High-level language used to specify
protocols and protocol conversion operations on the TransPath.

MDN
message disposition notification. Message returned to the originator of an e-mail
message indicating that the e-mail message has been opened. Specifications for MDN
are described in RFC 2298.

MEL CAS
Mercury Exchange Limited (MEL) Channel Associated Signaling. A voice signaling
protocol used primarily in the United Kingdom.

Metalanguage
A language that represents another language.

message unit
Unit of data processed by any network layer.

MFT
multiflex trunk module.

MICA
Modem ISDN channel aggregation. Modem module and card used in the Cisco AS5300
universal access servers. A MICA modem provides an interface between an incoming
or outgoing digital call and an Integrated Services Digital Network (ISDN) telephone
line; the call does not have to be converted to analog, as it does with a conventional
modem and an analog telephone line. Each line can accommodate, or aggregate, up to
24 (T1) or 30 (E1)calls.

microfilter
Device that prevents data frequencies (intended for a data device such as a router) from
traveling over the telephone line and interfering with telephone calls.

MID
message identifier. In ATM, used to identify ATM cells that carry segments from the
same higher-layer packet.

mid-level network
mid-level networks. Makes up the second level of the Internet hierarchy. They are the
transit networks that connect the stub networks to the backbone networks. Also referred
to as regionals.

MII
media independent interface. Standard specification for the interface between network
controller chips and their associated media interface chip(s). The MII automatically
senses 10- and 100-MHz Ethernet speeds.

MIME
Multipurpose Internet Mail Extension. MIME. Sstandard for transmitting non-text data
(or data that cannot be represented in plain ASCII code) in Internet mail, such as binary,
foreign language text (such as Russian or Chinese), audio, or video data. MIME is
defined in RFC 2045.

MIX
multiservice interchange.

MLP
Multilink PPP. Method of splitting, recombining, and sequencing datagrams across
multiple logical data links.

MMF
multimode fiber.

MML
TransPath Man-Machine Language.

MMoIP
Multimedia Mail over IP.

MMoIP dial peer
Multimedia Mail over Internet Protocol dial peer. Dial peer specific to Store and
Forward Fax. The MMoIP dial peer is the vehicle you use to assign particular line
characteristics (such as a destination telephone number) to the connection between the
Cisco router or access server and the SMTP mail server during on-ramp faxing.

MMP
Multichassis Multilink PPP. Extends MLP support across multiple routers and access
servers. MMP enables multiple routers and access servers to operate as a single, large
dial-up pool, with a single network address and ISDN access number. MMP correctly
handles packet fragmenting and reassembly when a user connection is split between two
physical access devices.

MPOA
Multiprotocol over ATM. ATM Forum standardization effort specifying how existing
and future network-layer protocols such as IP, IPv6, AppleTalk, and IPX run over an
ATM network with directly attached hosts, routers, and multilayer LAN switches.

MSO
multiple service operator. Cable service provider that also provides other services such
as data and/or voice telephony.

MTA
1. Message Transfer Agent. OSI application process used to store and forward messages
in the X.400 Message Handling System. Equivalent to Internet mail agent.
2. Mail Transfer Agent. Software that implements SMTP and provides storage for mail
messages to be forwarded or delivered to a local user. MTAs implement SMTP
(RFC 821).

MTBF
meantime between failure.

MUD
multi-user dungeon. Adventure, role playing games, or simulations played on the
Internet. Players interact in real time and can change the “world” in the game as they
play it. Most MUDs are based on the Telnet protocol.

multicast forward VCC
VCC set up by the BUS to the LEC as a leaf in a point-to-multipoint connection. See
also BUS, LEC (LAN Emulation Client), and VCC.

multicast send VCC
In an ATM network, a bi-directional point-to-point VCC set up by a LEC to a BUS. One
of three data connections defined by Phase 1 LANE. Compare with control distribute
VCC and control direct VCC. See also BUS, LEC (LAN Emulation Client), and VCC.

Multipoint.
1. Line or channel connecting three or more different service points.
2. Circuit that has points served by three or more switches. Single communications
channel (typically a leased telephone circuit) to which two or more stations or logical
units are attached although only one can transmit at a time. Such arrangements usually
require a polling mechanism under the control of a master station to ensure that only one
device transmits at a time.

multipoint control unit
Endpoint on the LAN that provides the capability for three or more terminals and
gateways to participate in a multipoint conference.

multi-user dungeon
See MUD.

mux
multiplexing device. Combines multiple signals for transmission over a single line. The
signals are demultiplexed, or separated, at the receiving end.

MVS
Multiple Virtual Storage. The primary operating systems for IBM mainframes.

MX record
mail exchange record. DNS resource record type indicating which host can handle
e-mail for a particular domain.


NACS
NetWare Asynchronous Communication Services. Novell software that supports
Novell’s AIO and NASI programming interfaces. NACS promotes the sharing of
communications resources such as modems, asynchronous hosts, and X.25 network
services.

NADF
North American Directory Forum. Collection of organizations that offer, or plan to
offer, public directory services in North America, based on the CCITT X.500
Recommendations.

NADN
nearest active downstream neighbor. In Token Ring or IEEE 802.5 networks, the closest
downstream network device from any given device that is still active.

namespace
Commonly distributed set of names in which all names are unique.

NANOG
North American Network Operator’s Group. Primary forum for information exchange
among U.S. exchange point participants, Internet service providers, and end users.

NANP
North American Numbering Plan.

NARP
NBMA Address Resolution Protocol. Functional subset of NHRP that returns only the
address mappings of nodes that are directly connected to the NBMA network. Compare
with NHRP.

NAS
network access server. Cisco platform (or collection of platforms such as an AccessPath
system which interfaces between the packet world (e.g. the Internet) and the circuit
world (e.g. the PSTN). (See access device.)

NAS
network access server. A NASI
NetWare Asynchronous Support Interface.

NBFCP
NetBIOS Frames Control Protocol. Protocol that establishes and configures NetBIOS
over PPP. See also NetBIOS and PPP.

NBNS
NetBIOS Name Service.

NCSA
National Center for Supercomputing Applications.

NE
network element. In OSS, a single piece of telecommunications equipment used to
perform a function or service integral to the underlying network.

NEBS
Network Equipment Building Systems. In OSS, the Bellcore requirement for equipment
deployed in a central office environment. Covers spatial, hardware, crafts person
interface, thermal, fire resistance, handling and transportation, earthquake and
vibration, airborne contaminants, grounding, acoustical noise, illumination, EMC, and
ESD requirements.

NEMS
Network Element Management Server.

netiquette
A pun on “etiquette” referring to proper behavior on a network.

Network Indicator
Determines the type of call that is being placed: 0 = international, 1 = reserved, 2=
national, and 3 = national spare.

network termination device 1
See NT-1.

network-visible entity
See NVE.

Network Virtualization
When hardware and software network resources and network functionality are combined into a single, software-based administrative entity.

NHS
Next Hop Server. Server defined by the NHRP protocol that maintains next-hop
resolution cache tables containing the IP-to-ATM address mappings of associated nodes
and nodes that are reachable through routers served by the NHS.

Nibble
One-half of a byte, which can be represented by a single hexadecimal digit.

NMA
Network Management and Analysis. Bellcore OSS providing alarm surveillance and
performance monitoring of intelligent network elements.

NOA
nature of address.

NPI
number plan identification.

NT-1
network termination 1. In ISDN, a device that provides the interface between customer
premises equipment and central office switching equipment.

Nubus
One of a large number of computer bus architecture’s used in Macintosh computers.

NVE
network-visible entity. Resource that is addressable through a network. Typically, an
NVE is a socket client for a service available in a node.

OAM&P
operations administration maintenance and provisioning.

OCC
originating call control.

OCLC
Online Computer Library Catalog. Nonprofit membership organization offering
computer-based services to libraries, educational organizations, and their users.

ODBC
Open DataBase Connectivity. Standard application programming interface for
accessing data in both relational and nonrelational database management systems.
Using this application programming interface, database applications can access data
stored in database management systems on a variety of computers even if each database
management system uses a different data storage format and programming interface.
ODBC is based on the call level interface specification of the X/Open SQL Access
Group and was developed by Digitial Equipment Corporation, Lotus, Microsoft, and
Sybase. Contrast with JDBC.

OEM
Original Equipment Manufacture. A system of distribution where a company markets equipment purchased from another company under its own label.

OLE
Object Linking and Embedding. A Microsoft specification for the exchange of data objects between applications.

OLO
other local operator.

OMG
Object Management Group.

OOS
1. Out-of-Service.
2. Telecommunications: Out-of-Service signaling.

OPC
own point code. Point code of the Cisco SC2200 signaling controller.

open database connectivity
See ODBC.

Open Group
Group formed in February 1996 by the consolidation of the two leading open systems
consortia: X/Open Company Ltd (X/Open) and the Open Software Foundation (OSF).

OpenView
HP’s SNMP console and network management system.

OPS/INE
Operations Provisioning System/lntelligent Network Element. Bellcore OSS that
provides provisioning services for intelligent network elements. See also OSS.

Optimized Bandwidth Management
Cisco wide-area switches ensure fair and cost-efficient bandwidth utilization using
various techniques. ABR and Optimized Banwidth Management are used for ATM and
Frame Relay traffic. ABR is a standards-based ATM traffic management mechanism,
and ForeSight is Cisco’s implementation that mirrors ABR capabilities for Frame Relay
traffic. ABR and Optimized Bandwidth Management optimize real-time traffic
performance and throughput, and minimize data loss. Bandwidth management for voice
is achieved through the use of standards-based voice compression and silence
suppression mechanisms for circuit data services. Formerly called ForeSight.

OSF
Open Software Foundation. Group responsible for the Distributed Computing
Environment (DCE) and the Distributed Management Environment (DME). See DCE.

OSI network address
Address, consisting of up to 20 octets, used to locate an OSI Transport entity. The
address is formatted into two parts: an Initial Domain Part that is standardized for each
of several addressing domains and a Domain Specific Part that is the responsibility of
the addressing authority for that domain.

OS/2
IBM’s operating system for 80×86 based systems.

OSS
Operations Support System. Network management system supporting a specific
management function, such as alarm surveillance and provisioning, in a carrier network.
Many OSSs are large centralized systems running on mainframes or minicomputers.
Common OSSs used within an RBOC include NMA, OPS/INE, and TIRKS.

Output
A representation of a system’s data that is externally visible.

Overwrite
An error condition that occurs when a process stores data in a location that it 1) has not properly allocated for that purpose or 2) has been allocated by another process.


PABX
private automatic branch exchange. Telephone switch for use inside a corporation.
PABX is the preferred term in Europe, while PBX is used in the United States.

Padding
Additional, meaningless data adds to a packet to increase its size.

Palo Alto Research Center
See PARC.

parent peer group
In ATM, a peer group that acts as a “parent” to a subordinate peer group. Organizing
peer groups hierarchically reduces the exchange of PTSPs. See also child peer group,
peer group, and PTSP.

payload type identifier
See PTI.

PCS
1. Personal Communications Service. Advanced network architecture that provides
personal, terminal, and service mobility. In the United States, PCS spectrum has been
allocated for broadband, narrowband, and unlicensed services.
2. port concentrator switch.

PDS
Processor Direct Slot. One of a large number of computer bus architecture’s used in Macintosh computers.

Peek
A term used to describe the viewing of network data not ordinarily visible to a user.

peer group
Collection of ATM nodes that share identical topological databases and exchange full
link state information with each other. Peer groups are arranged hierarchically to
prevent excessive PTSP traffic. See also parent peer group and PTSP.

peer group leader
See PGL.

PEM
privacy enhanced mail. Internet e-mail that provides confidentiality, authentication, and
message integrity using various encryption methods. Not widely deployed in the
Internet.

Personal Communications Service
See PCS.

PGL
peer group leader. In ATM, a node in a peer group that performs the functions of the
LGN. Peer group leaders exchange PTSPs with peer nodes in the parent peer group to
inform those nodes of the peer group’s attributes and reachability and to propagate
information about the parent group and the parent group’s parents to the nodes in the
peer group. See also peer group and PTSP.

physical layer interface module
See PLIM in the “Cisco Systems Terms and Acronyms” section.

PINX
private integrated services network exchange. A PBX or key system which, in a BRI
voice application, uses QSIG signaling.

PLAR
private line, automatic ringdown. Leased voice circuit that connects two single
endpoints together. When either telephone handset is taken off-hook, the remote
telephone automatically rings.

PLIM
See PLIM (physical layer interface module) in the “Cisco Systems Terms and
Acronyms” section.

PLSP
PNNI link state packets.

PNNI Link State Packets
See PLSP.

PNNI topology state element
See PTSE.

PNO
Public Network Operator. See also PTT.

POET
packet over E3/T3

poison reverse updates
Routing updates that explicitly indicate that a network or subnet is unreachable, rather
than implying that a network is unreachable by not including it in updates. Poison
reverse updates are sent to defeat large routing loops.

POL
Provisioning Object Library

POM
Provisioning Object Manager

port concentrator switch
See PCS.

port snooping
See circuit steering.

POSI
Promoting Conference for OSI. Group of executives from the six major Japanese
computer manufacturers and Nippon Telephone and Telegraph that sets policies and
commits resources to promote OSI.

POSIX
Portable Operating Systems Interface. An IEEE standard that specifies requirements for portable UNIX operating systems.

Post Office Protocol
See POP.

POTS dial peer
Dial peer connected via a traditional telephony network. POTS peers point to a
particular voice port on a voice network device.

POTS splitter
A device (or one part of a larger device) that enables both an DSL data device (for
example, a Cisco 1400 series router) and a standard analog device (such as a telephone)
to share the same ADSL line.

PowerOpen
Apple’s next-generation operating system co-developed with IBM.

PQ
priority queuing.

Print Spooler
A Software process that accepts a print job from a workstation as if it were a printer and then sends the print job to an actual printer at a later time. There are two styles, a background spooler, where the print spooling process is resident in the same node as the process seeking the print service, and a hardware spooler, where the print spooling process is in a separate node.

Privacy Enhanced Mail
See PEM.

PRMD
Private Management Domain. X.400 Message Handling System private organization
mail system (for example, NASAmail).

Promiscuous
A LAN station that receives and processes all of the packets on its network.

proxy
1. Entity that, in the interest of efficiency, essentially stands in for another entity.
2. Special gateways that relay one H.323 session to another.

PTI
payload type identifier. 3-bit descriptor in the ATM cell header indicating the type of
payload that the cell contains. Payload types include user and management cells; one
combination indicates that the cell is the last cell of an AAL5 frame.

PTSE
PNNI topology state element. Collection of PNNI information that is flooded among all
logical nodes within a peer group. See also peer group and PNNI.

PTSP
PNNI topology state packet. Type of PNNI routing packet used to exchange reachability
and resource information among ATM switches to ensure that a connection request is
routed to the destination along a path that has a high probability of meeting the
requested QoS. Typically, PTSPs include bidirectional information about the transit
behavior of particular nodes (based on entry and exit ports) and current internal state.
See also PNNI and QoS.

PVP tunneling
permanent virtual path tunneling. Method of linking two private ATM networks across
a public network using a virtual path. The public network transparently trunks the entire
collection of virtual channels in the virtual path between the two private networks.


Q.2931
ITU-T specification, based on Q.931, for establishing, maintaining, and clearing
network connections at the B-ISDN user-network interface. The UNI 3.1 specification
is based on Q.2931. See also Q.931 and UNI.

Q.931
ITU standard that describes ISDN signaling. The H.225.0 standard uses a variant of
Q.931 to establish and disconnect H.323 sessions.

QAM
quadrature amplitude modulation. Method of modulating digital signals onto a
radio-frequency carrier signal involving both amplitude and phase coding. QAM is a
modulation scheme mostly used in the downstream direction (QAM-64, QAM-256).
QAM-16 is expected to be usable in the upstream direction. Numbers indicate number
of code points per symbol. The QAM rate or the number of points in the QAM
constellation can be computed by 2 raised to the power of <number of bits/symbol>.

QPSK
Quadrature Phase-Shift Keying: a method of modulating digital signals onto a
radio-frequency carrier signal using four phase states to code two digital bits.

QRSS
quasi-random signal sequence: a test pattern widely used to simulate voice signals.

QSIG
Q (point of the ISDN model) Signaling. Signaling standard. Common channel signaling
protocol based on ISDN Q.931 standards and used by many digital PBXs.

QUIPU
Pioneering software package developed to study the OSI Directory and provide
extensive pilot capabilities.

QWP
query with permission.


race condition ranging
The process of acquiring the correct timing offset such that the transmissions of a cable
modem are aligned with the correct mini-slot boundary.

RAS
registration, admission, and status protocol. Protocol used in the H.323 protocol suite
for discovering and interacting with a Gatekeeper.

RDI
remote defect identification. In ATM, when the physical layer detects loss of signal or
cell synchronization, RDI cells are used to report a VPC/VCC failure. RDI cells are sent
upstream by a VPC/VCC endpoint to notify the source VPC/VCC endpoint of the
downstream failure.

RADIUS
Remote Dial-In User Service. Database for authenticating modem and ISDN
connections and for tracking connection time.

RD
Request Disconnect

Real Time Streaming Protocol
See RTSP.

Real-time Transport Protocol
See RTP.

Redialer
Interface hardware device that interconnects between a fax device and a Public
Switched Telephone Network (PSTN) network. A redialer is used to forward a dialed
number to another destination. Redialers contain a database of referral telephone
numbers. When the user dials a specific number, the redialer collects the dialed digits
and matches them to a listing in its database. If there is a match, the redialer dials the
referral number (transparent to the user) and forwards the call to the referral number.

Registration, Admission, and Status (RAS) protocol
This is the protocol used between endpoints and the gatekeeper

relative rate
See RR.

rendezvous point
Router specified in PIM sparse mode implementations to track membership in multicast
groups and to forward messages to known multicast group addresses. See also PIM
sparse mode.

replication
Process of keeping a copy of data, either through shadowing or caching. See caching
and shadowing.

Request To Send
See RTS.

required visual inspection
See RVI.

Research on Advanced Communications in Europe/Réseaux Associés pour la Recherche Européenne
See RACE.

ResEdit
A Macintosh utility that allows a user to modify the resource fork of an HFS file.

Resource Fork
In a Macintosh file, the portion of the file that contains such auxiliary information as the menus, the dialog boxes and sounds that a file may require in addition to its data.

RFP
request for proposal.

RHC
regional holding company

RIM
Request Initialization Mode

RIPE
Réseaux IP Européennes. Group formed to coordinate and promote TCP/IP-based
networks in Europe.

RISC
reduced instruction set computing

RIPE
Réseaux IP Européennes. Group formed to coordinate and promote TCP/IP-based
networks in Europe.

RISC
reduced instruction set computing

ROLC
routing over large clouds. Working group in IETF created to analyze and propose
solutions to problems that arise when performing IP routing over large, shared media
networks such as ATM, Frame Relay, SMDS, and X.25.

routed protocol
Protocol that can be routed by a router. A router must be able to interpret the logical
internetwork as specified by that routed protocol. Examples of routed protocols include
AppleTalk, DECnet, and IP.

route extension
In SNA, a path from the destination subarea node through peripheral equipment to a
NAU.

route map
Method of controlling the redistribution of routes between routing domains.

routing over large clouds
See ROLC.

RPF
Reverse Path Forwarding. Multicasting technique in which a multicast datagram is
forwarded out of all but the receiving interface if the receiving interface is the one used
to forward unicast datagrams to the source of the multicast datagram.

RR
relative rate. In ATM, one of the congestion feedback modes provided by ABR service.
In RR mode, switches set a bit in forward and backward RM cells to indicate
congestion. See also ABR and RLM.

RSA
Acronym stands for Rivest, Shamir, and Adelman, the inventors of the technique.
Public-key cryptographic system which may be used for encryption and authentication.

RSM
Route Switch Module

RTCP
RTP Control Protocol. Protocol that monitors the QOS of an IPv6 RTP connection and
conveys information about the on-going session. See also RTP (Real-Time Transport
Protocol).

RTFM
read the fantastic manual. Acronym often used when someone asks a simple or common
question.

RTP Control Protocol
See RTCP.

RTSC
read the source code.

RTSP
Real Time Streaming Protocol. Enables the controlled delivery of real-time data, such
as audio and video. Sources of data can include both live data feeds, such live audio and
video, and stored content, such as pre-recorded events. RTSP is designed to work with
established protocols, such as RTP and HTTP.

RUDP
Reliable User Data Protocol

RVI
required visual inspection.


SAA
Systems Application Architecture. IBM’s architecture for communications and application development.

sampling rate
Rate at which samples of a particular waveform amplitude are taken.

Set
In SNMP, the command given by the Console that asks the MIB to change the value of a data object in its MIB.

SCCP
Signaling Connection Control Part. Trillium software that supports routing and
translation and management functions and data transfer without logical signaling
connections.

SCP
Service Control Point. An element of an SS7-based Intelligent Network which performs
various service functions, such as number translation, call setup and teardown, etc.

SDSL
single-line digital subscriber line. One of four DSL technologies. SDSL
delivers1.544 Mbps both downstream and upstream over a single copper twisted pair.
The use of a single twisted pair limits the operating range of SDSL to 10,000 feet
(3048.8 meters). Compare with ADSL, HDSL, and VDSL.

Section DCC
Section Data Communications Channel. In OSS, a 192-kbps data communications
channel embedded in the section overhead for OAM&P traffic between two SONET
network elements. See also OAM&P and SONET.

sequence number protection
See SNP.

SET
Secure Electronic Transactions. SET specification developed to allow for secure credit
card and off-line debit card (check card) transactions over the World-Wide Web.

S-frame
Supervisory frame. One of three SDLC frame formats. See also I-frame and U-frame.

SGCP
Simple Gateway Control Protocol. Controls Voice over IP gateways by an external call
control element (called a call-agent). This has been adapted to allow SGCP to control
switch ATM Circuit Emulation Service circuits (called endpoints in SGCP). The
resulting system (call-agents and gateways) allows for the call-agent to engage in
Common Channel Signalling (CCS) over a 64-Kbps CES circuit, governing the
interconnection of bearer channels on the CES interface.

SGML
Standardized Generalized Markup Language. International standard for the definition of
system-independent, device-independent methods of representing text in electronic
form.

shadowing
Form of replication in which well-defined units of information are copied to several
DSAs.

SID
Service ID: a number that defines (at the MAC sublayer) a particular mapping between
a cable modem (CM) and the CMTS. The SID is used for the purpose of upstream
bandwidth allocation and class-of-service management.

Signal path
Route of a signal channel that carries signaling data.

SIM
Set Initialization Mode

Site
Group of closely related configuration data. It can be the name of a physical location or
it can be a name you choose to give to one segment of your overall system.

SLAC
Stanford Linear Accelerator Center.

SLC
Signaling link code. Code that identifies a linkset.

SMF
single-mode fiber.

SMO
state machine object.

SNP
sequence number protection.

SNRM
Set Normal Response.

SNRME
Set Normal Response. Mode Exchange.

socket client
Software process or function implemented in an AppleTalk network node.

socket listener
Software provided by a socket client to receive datagrams addressed to the socket. See
also socket client.

SOHO
small office, home office. Networking solutions and access technologies for offices that
are not directly connected to large corporate networks.

SPAG
Standards Promotion and Application Group. Group of European OSI manufacturers
that chooses option subsets and publishes these in the “Guide to the Use of Standards”
(GUS).

spam
Term used to describe unsolicited e-mail or newsgroup posts, often in the form of
commercial announcements. The act of sending a spam is called, naturally spamming.

SPNNI connection
See SPNNI connection in the “Cisco Systems Terms and Acronyms” section.

SQL
Structured Query Language. A widely used metalanguage for data base access and management. AN IBM and ANSI standard.

SRP
spatial reuse protocol

SSCOP
Service Specific Connection Oriented Protocol. Data link protocol that guarantees
delivery of ATM signaling packets.

SSL
Secure Socket Layer. Encryption technology for the Web used to provide secure
transactions such as the transmission of credit card numbers for e-commerce.

SSN
Subsystem number

statically assigned socket
See SAS.

startup range
Range of values (from 65280 to 65534) from which an AppleTalk node selects the
network number part of its provisional address if it has not saved another network
number.

STD
Subseries of RFCs that specify Internet standards. The official list of Internet standards
is in STD 1.

store and forward
Function whereby a message is transmitted to some intermediate relay point and
temporarily stored before forwarding to the next relay point.

stream-oriented
Type of transport service that allows its client to send data in a continuous stream. The
transport service will guarantee that all data will be delivered to the other end in the
same order as sent and without duplicates.

SU
1. signaling unit. Another name for the TransPath product.
2. service unit or signaling unit.

Subject-matter expert
A subject-matter expert (SME) or domain expert is a person who is an authority in a particular area or topic. 

Super-JANET
Latest phase in the development of JANET, the UK educational and research network
run by UKERNA. It uses SMDS and ATM to provide multiservice network facilities for
many new applications including multimedia conferencing.

Switched 56
A dial-up communication service available from a telephone service provider that offers a fractional portion of a T1 line built from as many as 24 channels of 56 KBPS each. Also called Fractional T1


T.120
ITU standard that describes data conferencing. H.323 provides for the ability to
establish T.120 data sessions inside of an existing H.323 session.

TABS
Telemetry Asynchronous Block Serial. AT&T polled point-to-point or multipoint
communication protocol that supports moderate data transfer rates over intra-office wire
pairs.

tag
Identification information, including a number plus other information.

tag switching
High-performance, packet-forwarding technology that integrates network layer (Layer
3) routing and data link layer (Layer 2) switching and provides scalable, high-speed
switching in the network core. Tag switching is based on the concept of label swapping,
in which packets or cells are assigned short, fixed-length labels that tell switching nodes
how data should be forwarded.

Tandem switching
Dynamic switching of voice calls between VoFR, VoATM, or VoHDLC PVCs and
subchannels; also called tandeming. Tandem switching is often encountered in
multi-hop VoFR call connection paths.

Tap
An intrusion into a network cable by a connector.

TARP
TID Address Resolution Protocol. In OSS, a protocol that resolves a TL-1 TID to a
CLNP address (NSAP).

TAXI 4B/5B
Transparent Asynchronous Transmitter/Receiver Interface 4-byte/5-byte. Encoding scheme used for FDDI LANs, as well as for ATM. Supports speeds of up to 100 Mbps over multimode fiber. TASI is the chipset that generates 4B/5B encoding on multimode fiber.

TBOS protocol
Telemetry Byte Oriented Serial protocol. Protocol that transmits alarm, status, and
control points between NE and OSS. TBOS defines one physical interface for direct
connection between the telemetry equipment and the monitored equipment.

TC
transmission convergence. Sublayer of the ATM physical layer that transforms the flow
of cells into a steady flow of bits for transmission over the physical medium. When
transmitting, the TC sublayer maps the cells into the frame format, generates the HEC,
and sends idle cells when there is nothing to send. When receiving, the TC sublayer
delineates individual cells in the received bit stream and uses HEC to detect and correct
errors. See also HEC and PHY.

TCAP
transaction capabilities application part.

TCC
terminating call control.

TCL Interface
tool command line interface.

TCP and UDP over Lightweight IP
See TULIP.

TCP and UDP over Nonexistent IP
See TUNIP.

Technology prefix
Discriminators used to distinguish between gateways having specific capabilities within
a given zone. In the exchange between the gateway and the gatekeeper, the technology
prefix is used to select a gateway after the zone has been selected. Technology prefixes
can be used to tell the gatekeeper that a certain technology is associated with a particular
call (for example, 15# could mean a fax transmission), or it can be used like an area code
for more generic routing. No standard defines what the numbers in a technology prefix
mean; by convention, technology prefixes are designated by a pound (#) symbol as the
last character.

TEI
terminal endpoint identifier. Field in the LAPD address that identifies a device on an
ISDN interface. See also TE.

TE
terminal equipment. Any ISDN-compatible device that can be attached to the network,
such as a telephone, fax, or computer.

Telecommunication Management Network
See TMN.

Telemetry Asynchronous Block Serial
See TABS.

telemetry
Capability of transmitting or retrieving data over long distance communication links,
such as satellite or telephone.

terminal endpoint identifier
See TEI.

terminal equipment
See TE.

Thick Ethernet
Also known as 10Base5.

three-way handshake
Process whereby two protocol entities synchronize during connection establishment.

TID
Terminal Identifier.

TINA-C
Telecommunications Information Networking Architecture. Services applications built
in C and corresponding to TINA guidelines.

TIOS
Transpath Input Output Subsystem

TIRKS
Trunk Information Record Keeping System. Bellcore OSS that provides record keeping
for interoffice trunk facilities. See also OSS.

TLAP
TokenTalk Link Access Protocol. Link-access protocol used in a TokenTalk network.
TLAP is built on top of the standard Token Ring data-link layer.

TM
traffic management.

TMN
Telecommunication Management Network. ITU-T generic model for transporting and
processing OAM&P information for a telecommunications network. See also OAM&P.

TP4
Transport Protocol Class 4. OSI connection-based transport protocol. Defined by
ISO 8073.

TPD
Mechanism used by some ATM switches that allows the remaining cells supporting an
AAL5 frame to be discarded when one or more cells of that AAL5 frame are dropped.
This avoids sending partial AAL5 frames through the ATM network when they will
have to be retransmitted by the sender. Compare with EPD.

TPPMD
twisted-pair physical medium dependent.

Traffic path
Route of a bearer channel that carries voice traffic.

trailing packet discard
See TPD.

transfer syntax
Description on an instance of a data type that is expressed as a string of bits.

transmission convergence
See TC.

TransPath component
The part of your signaling controller system where signals are identified, converted, and
routed.

TREDI
Traffic Reduced Encapsulation of DDP in IP. An AppleTalk tunneling protocol developed by Cayman.

TRISL
Token Ring Inter-Switch Link

TR VLAN
Token Ring virtual LAN

TSI
transmitting subscriber information. Frame that can be sent by the caller with the
caller’s telephone number that can be used to screen calls.

TSP
tag-switched path.

TULIP
TCP and UDP over Lightweight IP. Proposed protocol for running TCP and UDP
applications over ATM.

TUNIP
TCP and UDP over Nonexistent IP. Proposed protocol for running TCP and UPD
applications over ATM.


UA
unnumbered acknowledgement.

UBR+
unspecified bit rate plus. UBR service complemented by ATM switches that use
intelligent packet discard mechanisms such as EPD or TPD. See also EPD and TPD.

UCM
universal call model.

UDLP
UniDirectional Link Protocol. Protocol used by inexpensive, receive-only antennas to
receive data via satellite.

U-frame
Unnumbered frame. One of three SDLC frame formats. See also I-frame and S-frame.

UI
unnumbered information.

UIO
Universal I/O serial port (Cisco router).

UKERNA
UK Education and Research Networking Association.

U-law
Companding technique commonly used in North America. U-law is standardized as a
64-kbps CODEC in ITU-T G.711.

UniDirectional Link Protocol
See UCM.

upstream
Set of frequencies used to send data from a subscriber to the headend.

urban legend
Story, which may start with a grain of truth, that has been retold and end up on the
Internet. Some legends that periodically make their rounds include “The Infamous
Modem Tax,” “Craig Shergold/Brain Tumor/Get Well Cards,” and “The $250 Cookie
Recipe.” Urban Legends are conceptually similar to space junk that stays in orbit for
years.

UTC
Coordinated Universal Time. Time zone at zero degrees longitude. Formerly called
Greenwich Mean Time (GMT) and Zulu time.

UTS
P1024C data-link layer protocol.

UTP Ethernet
1) A synonym for 10BaseT. 2) Any of a number of Ethernet technologies in use before the adoption of the 10BaseT Standard that provided a 10 MBPS network system using CSMA/CD.

uuencode
UNIX-to-UNIX encoding. Method of converting binary files to ASCII so that they can
be sent over the Internet via e-mail. The name comes from its use by the UNIX
operating system’s uuencode command. See also uudecode.

uudecode
UNIX-to-UNIX decode. Method of decoding ASCII files that were encoded using
uuencode. See also uuencode.

UVM
Universal Voice Module.

UVM-C
Universal Voice Module-Channelized.

UVM-U
Universal Voice Module-Unchannelized.


VAC
volts alternating current.

VAD
voice activity detection. When enabled on voice port or a dial peer, silence is not
transmitted over the network, only audible speech. When VAD is enabled, the sound
quality is slightly degraded, but the connection monopolizes much less bandwidth.

Vaporware
A computer program that has been publicly announced but is not shipping.

VCD
virtual circuit descriptor.

VDC
volts direct current.

VDSL
very-high-data-rate digital subscriber line. One of four DSL technologies. VDSL
delivers 13 to 52 Mbps downstream and 1.5 to 2.3 Mbps upstream over a single twisted
copper pair. The operating range of VDSL is limited to 1,000 to 4,500 feet (304.8 to
1,372 meters). Compare with ADSL, HDSL, and SDSL.

Veronica
very easy rodent oriented netwide index to computer archives. Gopher utility that
effectively searches Gopher servers based on a user’s list of keywords.

VF
variance factor. One of three link attributes exchanged using PTSPs to determine the
available resources of an ATM network. VF is a relative measure of CRM normalized
by the variance of the aggregate cell rate on the link.

virtual channel identifier
See VCD.

virtual connection
In ATM, a connection between end users that has a defined route and endpoints. See also
PVC and SVC.

Virtualization Sprawl (VM Sprawl)
A phenomenon that occurs when the number of virtual machines (VMs) on a network reaches a point where the administrator can no longer manage them effectively. Virtualization sprawl may also be referred to as virtual machine sprawl, VM sprawl or virtual server sprawl.
Although virtual machines (VMs) are easily created, they have the same licensing, support, security and compliance issues that physical machines do. To prevent virtualization sprawl, the administrator should define and enforce a process for the deployment of VMs and create a library of standardized VM image files. VMs that are being under-utilized should be archived.
Virtual machine lifecycle management (VMLM) tools can help administrators oversee the implementation, delivery, operation, and maintenance of virtual machines over the course of their existence. Such tools can provide administrators with a dashboard user interface (UI) that will show how many virtual machines are running on a network, which physical machines are hosting them, where their storage is located, what software or operating system (OS) licenses are associated with them and who created them.

virtual subnet
Logical grouping of devices that share a common Layer 3 subnet.

VITAL
Virtually Integrated Technical Architecture Lifecycle. A conceptual framework, designed by Apple, for designing, building and maintaining enterprise information systems.

VMAC
Virtual Media Access Control.

VoATM
Voice Over ATM. Voice over ATM enables a router to carry voice traffic (for example,
telephone calls and faxes) over an ATM network. When sending voice traffic over ATM,
the voice traffic is encapsulated using a special AAL5 encapsulation for multiplexed
voice.

VoATM dial peer
Dial peer connected via an ATM network. VoATM peers point to specific VoATM
devices.

VoFR
Voice Over Frame Relay. Voice over Frame Relay enables a router to carry voice traffic
(for example, telephone calls and faxes) over a Frame Relay network. When sending
voice traffic over Frame Relay, the voice traffic is segmented and encapsulated for
transit across the Frame Relay network using FRF.12 encapsulation.

VoFR dial peer
Dial peer connected via a Frame Relay network. VoFR peers point to specific VoFR
devices.

VoHDLC
Voice Over HDLC. Voice over HDLC enables a router to carry live voice traffic (for
example, telephone calls and faxes) back-to-back to a second router over a serial line.

VoHDLC dial peer
Dial peer connected via an HDLC network. VoHDLC peers point to specific VoHDLC
devices.

VoIP
Voice over IP. The ability to carry normal telephony-style voice over an IP-based
internet with POTS-like functionality, reliability, and voice quality

Voice over IP
Voice over IP enables a router to carry voice traffic (for example, telephone calls and
faxes) over an IP network. In Voice over IP, the DSP segments the voice signal into
frames, which are then coupled in groups of two and stored in voice packets. These
voice packets are transported using IP in compliance with ITU-T specification H.323.

VP
virtual path. One of two types of ATM circuits identified by a VPI. A virtual path is a
bundle of virtual channels, all of which are switched transparently across an ATM
network based on a common VPI. See also VPI.

VPDN
virtual private dial-up network. See also VPN.

VPN
Virtual Private Network, which Enables IP traffic to travel securely over a public TCP/IP
network by encrypting all traffic from one network to another. A VPN uses “tunneling”
to encrypt all information at the IP level.

VRML
Virtual Reality Modeling Language. Specification for displaying 3-dimensional objects
on the World Wide Web. Think of it as the 3-D equivalent of HTML.

VSAM
Virtual Storage Access Method. the Primary Mechanism for accessing data on IBM mainframes.

VSC
See VSC in the Cisco Systems Terms and Acronyms section.

VSI
Virtual Switch Interface

VS/VD
virtual source/virtual destination.

VT-n
Virtual Tributary level n. SONET format for mapping a lower-rate signal into a SONET
payload. For example, VT-1.5 is used to transport a DS-1 signal. See also DS-1 and
SONET.

vty
virtual type terminal, but commonly used as virtual terminal lines.


WAIS
Wide Area Information Server. Distributed database protocol developed to search for
information over a network. WAIS supports full-text databases, which allow an entire
document to be searched for a match (as opposed to other technologies that only allow
an index of key words to be searched).

WDM
wave division multiplexing

W-DCS
Wideband Digital Crossconnect System. SONET DCS capable of crossconnecting
DS-1 and VT1.5 signals. See also DCS, DS-1, SONET, and VT-n.

WFQ
weighted fair queuing. Congestion management algorithm that identifies conversations
(in the form of traffic streams), separates packets that belong to each conversation, and
ensures that capacity is shared fairly between these individual conversations. WFQ is an
automatic way of stabilizing network behavior during congestion and results in
increased performance and reduced retransmission.

Whaling
characterized by an attacker attempting to map out an organization's staff hierarchy in
order to send targeted emails.

WinSock
Windows Socket Interface. Software interface that allows a wide variety of applications
to use and share an Internet connection. WinSock is implemented as dynamic link
library (DLL) with some supporting programs, such as a dialer program that initiates the
connection.


X11
The specifications for X Windows.


XDR
eXternal Data Representation. Standard for machine-independent data structures
developed by Sun Microsystems. Similar to BER.

xDSL
Group term used to refer to ADSL, HDSL, SDSL and VDSL. All are emerging digital
technologies using the existing copper infrastructure provided by the telephone
companies. xDSL is a high-speed alternative to ISDN.

XE
TransPath Execution Environment. Layer of software providing shared services for all
application software on the TransPath and isolating higher-level software from
operating system dependencies.

XID
exchange identification. Request and response packets exchanged prior to a session
between a router and a Token Ring host. If the parameters of the serial device contained
in the XID packet do not match the configuration of the host, the session is dropped.

XML
eXtensible Markup Language. Text markup language designed to enable the use of
SGML on the World-Wide Web. XML allows you to define your own customized
markup language.

XOT
X.25 over TCP.

X Recommendations
CCITT documents that describe data communication network standards. Well-known
ones include X.25 Packet Switching standard, X.400 Message Handling System, and
X.500 Directory Services.

XTagATM
extended tag ATM.

X Windows (only included for reference to X11)
A way of operating remote systems. The window allows the user to control and application remotely and view the application’s output.


4B/5B local fiber
4-byte/5-byte local fiber. Fiber channel physical media used for FDDI and ATM.
Supports speeds of up to 100 Mbps over multimode fiber. See also TAXI 4B/5B.

802.x
Set of IEEE standards for the definition of LAN protocols.

822
Short form of RFC 822. Refers to the format of Internet style e-mail as defined in RFC
822.


ATM network
Traditional Cisco ATM network built around BPX switches.

ATM network interface card
ESP card that is used as the OC-3 interface to the BPX’s BXM.

BOBI
break-out/break-in. VNS feature that allows interworking between Euro-ISDN (ETSI)
and other VNS-supported signaling variants, such as DPNSS and QSIG.

BPX Service Node
Closely integrated BPX switch, AXIS interface shelf, and extended services processor
designed to support ATM and Frame Relay switched virtual circuits, as well as
traditional PVCs.

break-out/break-in
See BOBI.

Call Detail Record
See CDR.

CAM
Cisco Access Manager.

CDR
Call Detail Record. VNS record of voice or data SVCs, which includes calling and
called numbers, local and remote node names, data and timestamp, elapsed time, and
Call Failure Class fields.

C-ISUP
Proprietary Cisco protocol based on ISUP.

Cisco Link Services
See CLS.

Cisco Link Services Interface
See CLSI.

Cisco-trunk (private line) call
A Cisco-trunk (private line) call is established by the forced connection of a dynamic
switched call. A Cisco-trunk call is established during configuration of the trunk and
stays up for the duration of the configuration. It optionally provides a pass-through
connection path to pass signaling information between the two telephony interfaces at
either end of the connection.

CLS
Cisco link services. A front-end for a variety of data-link control services.

CLSI
Cisco Link Services Interface. Messages that are exchanged between CLS and data-link
users such as APPN, SNA service point, and DLSw+.

CPP
Combinet Proprietary Protocol.

DistributedDirector
Method of distributing Web traffic by taking into account Web server availability and
relative client-to-server topological distances in order to determine the optimal Web
server for a client. DistributedDirector uses the Director Response Protocol to query
DRP server agents for BGP and IGP routing table metrics.

DRP
Director Response Protocol. Protocol used by the DistributedDirector feature in IP
routing.

DRP
Director Response Protocol. Protocol used by the DistributedDirector feature in IP
routing.

DSPU concentration
Cisco IOS feature that enables a router to function as a PU concentrator for SNA PU 2
nodes. PU concentration at the router simplifies the task of PU definition at the upstream
host while providing additional flexibility and mobility for downstream PU devices.

ESP
Extended Services Processor. Rack-mounted adjunct processor that is co-located with a
Cisco BPX/AXIS (all three units comprise a BPX service node) and has IP connectivity
to a StrataView Plus Workstation.

Extended Services Processor
See ESP.

Inter-Switch Link
See ISL.

ISL
Inter-Switch Link. Cisco-proprietary protocol that maintains VLAN information as
traffic flows between switches and routers.

local adjacency
Two VNSs that control different VSN areas, but communicate with one another through
a Frame Relay PVC, are considered to be locally adjacent.

MICA
Multiservice IOS Channel Aggregation. Technology that enables the simultaneous
support of remote-access users through both analog modems and ISDN devices.

NetFlow
Network flow is defined as a unidirectional sequence of packets between given source
and destination endpoints. Network flows are highly granular: flow endpoints are
identified both by IP address as well as by transport layer application port numbers.
(NetFlow also uses IP Protocol, ToS and the input interface port to uniquely identify
flows.) Conventional network layer switching handles incoming packets independently,
with separate serial tasks for switching, security, services and traffic measurements
applied to each packet. With NetFlow switching, this process is applied only to the first
packet of a flow. Information from the first packet is used to build an entry in the
NetFlow cache. Subsequent packets in the flow are handled via a single streamlined task
that handles switching, services, and data collection concurrently.

NSP
Network Service Point.

physical layer interface module
See PLIM.

PLIM
physical layer interface module. Interface that allows the AIP (ATM Interface
Processor) to a variety of physical layers, including TAXI and SONET multimode
fiber-optic cable, SDH/SONET single-mode fiber cable, and E3 coaxial cable.

RP
Route Processor. Processor module in the Cisco 7000 series routers that contains the
CPU, system software, and most of the memory components that are used in the router.
Sometimes called a supervisory processor.

SPNNI connection
Frame Relay connection between two VNSs in different areas or domains. The SPNNI
connection gets its name from the proprietary Network-to-Network Interface protocol
that operates over this connection.

VSC
Cisco’s virtual switch controller.

Wild Duck
A creative or technical person who does unconventional thigns. The term implies respect and an acknowledgement that many of that person's idas turn out to be valuable.




















