Firewall and Security Terminology 


Access Control Service
A security service that provides protection of system resources against unauthorized access. The two basic mechanisms for implementing this service are ACLs and tickets.

Account Harvesting
Account Harvesting is the process of collecting all the legitimate account names on a system.

ACK Piggybacking
ACK piggybacking is the practice of sending an ACK inside another packet going to the same destination.

Advanced Persistent Threat 0/APT
An advanced persistent threat is deployed by cyber-criminals who have a high level of expertise and important resources to infiltrate a network. They usually use this type of attack to target large organizations seeking to retrieve economic or financial information. In some cases, they might even try to use this form of attack to stop or block a company’s program or agenda. Since an advanced persistent threat is executed over long periods of time, it is difficult to be detected and blocked by average users and requires a specialized security program or a team of experts to find a solution.

Algorithm
A computable set of steps to achieve a desired result.

Angler Exploit Kit
Angler emerged in 2013 and now is one of the most famous and sophisticated exploit kits in the cyber criminal community. It features aggressive tactics to avoid being detected by security products and it’s capable of exploiting a vast array of software vulnerabilities in order to infect unsuspecting victims with malware. Because it’s usually spread through drive-by downloads, Angler is extremely difficult to detect and can infect users without any interaction. It also features fileless infection capabilities and it’s able to deliver a variety of payloads, from ransomware, to Trojans, rootkits and backdoor Trojans. Its prevalence is also consolidated by the fact that cyber criminals don’t need advanced technical skills to use it and the fact that it's a constantly evolving threat.

Anomaly-based detection
Anomaly-based Intrusion Detection is a new technology that protects systems or networks against malicious and cyber-criminal activities using a heuristics-based detection, and less the classic signature-based methods. This detection type is still new and delivers a high number of False Positives. The problem is that a system must recognize abnormal activities and flag them as dangerous, but it is yet difficult to instruct a computer on what exactly a normal usage of the system is.

Application-level gateway
Application gateways function at all four layers of the TCP/IP suite. They are typically implemented through software installed on a specialized server. Application gateways are sometimes known as proxy servers.

Application Proxy 
This is the next level up(from circuit proxy), as the firewall proxy software understands which application it is doing the proxy for, and actually inspects the data passing through. This allows for much finer control (ftp gets, but no puts for example). It also provides much finer protection, as you can filter for viruses in incoming data, be it email, ftp, or http. There must be proxy software for each application type you want to proxy.

Asymmetric Warfare
Asymmetric warfare is the fact that a small investment, properly leveraged, can yield incredible results.

Atmos
Atmos is a form of financial malware emerged from Citadel (which, in turn, is based on the ZeuS leaked code). Atmos has been active since late 2015, but there was no serious uptick in activity until April 2016.

Autorun worm
Autorun worms are malware programs that use the Windows AutoRun feature to launch automatically when the device, usually a USB drive, is plugged into a PC. AutoPlay, a similar technology has been used recently to deliver the infamous Conficker worm. Microsoft has set on new systems the AutoRun setting to off, so this issue should disappear in the future.



Back door
An intentional hole in a firewall or security apparatus that allows access around security measures.

Bastion host
Strongly secured devices that have a direct network connection to a public network such as the Internet. It can operate as any of the three types of firewalls.

Baseline security
An IT security baseline check is a set of basic measures and objectives that any service or network system should be able to meet. This baseline methodology is usually a set of security steps that are implemented and imposed in an organization's IT security level.

Batch scripts
A list of commands executed by a computer’s operating system.

Blended Threat
A blended threat is a widely-used term that describes an online attack that spreads by using a combination of methods, usually a combination of worms, trojans, viruses and other malware. This combination of malware elements that uses multiple attack vectors increases the damage and makes individual systems and networks difficult to defend.

Boot Record Infector
A boot record infector is a piece of malware that inserts malicious code into the boot sector of a disk.

Brute-force attack
An attempt by a hacker to defeat authentication by obtaining a legitimate user's password.

Buffer overflow
A popular bug-based attack that works by sending more data than the target system is intended to receive at one time.

Buffer overflow
A buffer overflow takes place when a program or an application tries to store excess data in a temporary storage area (a buffer) and that extra information overflows into other parts of a computer's memory. This is something hackers took advantage from and these types of attacks can lead to unauthorized code running or system crashes.

Bug
A computer program or hardware error that causes recurring malfunctions.



Cache Cramming
Cache Cramming is the technique of tricking a browser to run cached Java code from the local disk, instead of the internet zone, so it runs with less restrictive permissions.

Cache Poisoning
Malicious or misleading data from a remote name server is saved [cached] by another name server. Typically used with DNS cache poisoning attacks.

Cold/Warm/Hot Disaster Recovery Site
* Hot site. It contains fully redundant hardware and software, with telecommunications, telephone and utility connectivity to continue all primary site operations. Failover occurs within minutes or hours, following a disaster. Daily data synchronization usually occurs between the primary and hot site, resulting in minimum or no data loss. Offsite data backup tapes might be obtained and delivered to the hot site to help restore operations. Backup tapes should be regularly tested to detect data corruption, malicious code and environmental damage. A hot site is the most expensive option. * Warm site. It contains partially redundant hardware and software, with telecommunications, telephone and utility connectivity to continue some, but not all primary site operations. Failover occurs within hours or days, following a disaster. Daily or weekly data synchronization usually occurs between the primary and warm site, resulting in minimum data loss. Offsite data backup tapes must be obtained and delivered to the warm site to restore operations. A warm site is the second most expensive option. * Cold site. Hardware is ordered, shipped and installed, and software is loaded. Basic telecommunications, telephone and utility connectivity might need turning on to continue some, but not all primary site operations. Relocation occurs within weeks or longer, depending on hardware arrival time, following a disaster. No data synchronization occurs between the primary and cold site, and could result in significant data loss. Offsite data backup tapes must be obtained and delivered to the cold site to restore operations. A cold site is the least expensive option.

Chargeback
A payment card transaction where the supplier initially receives payment but the transaction is later rejected by the cardholder or the card issuing company. The supplier’s account is then debited with the disputed amount.

Chargeware
This form of scamming is usually associated with online porn. It is a method to manipulate the user into signing for unclear terms and conditions that overcharge the credit card and makes it difficult to unsubscribe.

Choke point
An intersection between a company's private and a public network used to monitor, filter, and verify all inbound and outbound traffic.

Ciphertext
Text which has been encrypted by some encryption system.

Circuit Switched Network
A circuit switched network is where a single continuous physical circuit connected two endpoints where the route was immutable once set up.

Circuit-level gateway
Circuit-level gateways are similar to packet filters. The main advantage of circuit-level gateways is their ability to provide network address translation.

Circuit Proxy: 
A circuit proxy breaks communication at the firewall. For example, if you wanted to telnet to an outside host, your telnet session would be captured by the firewall, and it would start another session with the outside host, translating between the two sessions, often transparently. In this situation, host hiding is performed. The outside host thinks it was telnet'ed to from the firewall, and knows nothing about the host inside the firewall.

Citadel
Citadel is a form of financial malware which emerged in 2012, after the source code for the infamous ZeuS malware was leaked online. Because the code was open source, cyber criminals started improving it to get newer, more sophisticated and stealthier malware types. Just like ZeuS/Zbot, Citadel aims to retrieve confidential information, especially banking and financial information, from the victim. On top of financial fraud, Citadel can also run different types of malware, such as ransomware or scareware, which makes it advanced toolkit for cyber criminals.

Code injection
The code injection technique is usually used by online attackers to change the course of execution of a computer program. This method is used by online criminals to spread malicious software by infecting legitimate websites with malicious code.

Collect & Operate  
A NICE Workforce Framework category consisting of specialty areas responsible for specialized denial and deception operations and collection of cybersecurity information that may be used to develop intelligence.
From: NICE Workforce Framework

Command and control center
A command and control center (C&C) is a network server that controls a large network of compromised systems. The malicious server is used by hackers to send and receive commands from and to the infected computers. Using this type of network, hackers can launch distributed denial-of-service attacks by instructing the computers to perform the same action.

Common Gateway Interface (CGI)
A protocol that allows a Web server to pass control to a software application, based on a user request. It also allows that program to receive and organize that information, then return it to the user in a consistent format. A CGI script resides on a Web server, enabling the CGI process.

Compressed Serial Line Internet Protocol (CSLIP)
Compresses the IP and TCP headers, thus reducing the size of the packet and improving bandwidth.

Computer Emergency Response Team (CERT)
An organization devoted to dealing with computer-related security issues. Based at the Carnegie Mellon University, CERT is a part of the Internet Society which establishes the protocols that govern the Internet. (http://www.cert.org)

Computer Security Division (www.itl.nist.gov)
One of eight divisions within NIST's Information Technology Laboratory. The mission of the Division is to enable organizations and individuals to use information technology with the assurance and trust that the confidentiality, integrity, reliability and availability of information resources are protected.

CoreBOT
CoreBOT is a modular Trojan from the infostealer category. As the name says, CoreBOT was initially designed to collect and loot information from the infected computer or network. In time, CoreBOT quickly evolved and went to add other capabilities, such as browser-based web injects, real-time form-grabbing, Man-in-the-middle attacks, etc. Now, its structure and tactics are similar to infamous financial malware strains, such as Dyreza or Neverquest. Its modular character makes CoreBOT appealing to cyber criminals because they can pack it with other types of malware and use it in complex cyber attacks.

Cron
Cron is a Unix application that runs jobs for users and administrators at scheduled times of the day.

Crimeware
Crimeware is distinct from adware or spyware and it's created for identity theft operations that use social enginering schemes to gain access to a user's online accounts. Crimeware is a growing issue for networks' security, as numerous types of malware look to steal valuable data from the systems. The retrieved information may be sent to other interested parties for a certain price.

Cross Site Scripting (XSS)
Cross-site scripting (XSS) is a software vulnerability usually found in Web applications. This XSS allows online criminals to inject client-side script into pages that other users view. The cross-site scripting vulnerability can be employed at the same time by attackers to over-write access controls. This issue can become a significant security risk unless the network administrator or the website owner doesn't take the necessary security means.

Cryptanalysis
The science of recovering plaintext messages without knowledge of the key.

CryptoLocker
CryptoLocker is a type of ransomware which emerged in 2013 and whose objective is to infect victims using PCs with Microsoft Windows installed. As is the case with most ransomware, the main distribution method is spam emails with a malicious attachment. CryptoLocker relies on external infrastructure (a botnet) to launch its attacks and, when activated, encrypts the files and data stored on the local device, but also those in cloud storage accounts, if, for example, the Dropbox account is synced locally on the affected PC. CryptoLocker then displays a message so the victims can know that paying a ransom in bitcoins is necessary if they want to get the decryption key (which is stored on the servers controlled by the cyber criminals).

CryptoWall
CryptoWall is a ransomware Trojan which emerged as a CryptoLocker variant. Like most data-stealing ransomware, CryptoWall spreads mainly through phishing and spam campaigns that invite users to click a malicious link or download and execute an email attachment. Moreover, in order to increase distribution, cyber criminals included CryptoWall code in websites ads. The ransomware, once executed, encrypts all the data on the victim’s PC and any other PC tied to the first affected computer by the same network. The victim is then prompted to pay the ransom in bitoins so they can get the decryption key and regain access to their data. CryptoWall has already reached its fourth iteration and there is reason to believe that this won’t be the last one.

CTB Locker
CTB Locker if a type of file-encrypting ransomware that emerged in 2014. Its name is an acronym and comes from Curve-Tor-Bitcoin Locker: Curve stands for its persistent cryptography based on elliptic curves, which encrypts the affected files with a unique RSA key; Tor comes from the malicious server placed in onion-domain (TOR), which is very difficult to take down; and Bitcoin refers to the possibility to pay the ransom in Bitcoins, avoiding normal payment systems that can lead back to online criminals. CTB Locker achieved very high infection rates because of its capabilities and multi-lingual adaptations, but most of because it employed an affiliate model to recruit malicious actors that could spread the infection further in return for a percentage of the profits. CTB Locker is delivered through aggressive spam campaigns and achieved a large volume of infections based on this affiliate business model.



Employing data execution prevention (DEP) 
Another way to avoid vertical privilege escalation attacks. Most popular operating systems have DEP built in for just this reason. And some networks use operating systems with Mandatory Access Controls to further prevent vertical privilege exploits.

Dictionary file
A file comprised of common passwords used by a hacker in an attempt to gain entrance to a network.

Dictionary program
A program specifically written to break into a password-protected system. A dictionary program has a relatively large list of common password names that the program repeatedly uses to gain access.

Digital envelope
A type of security that uses two layers of encryption to protect a message. First, the message itself is encoded using symmetric encryption, and then the key to decode the message is encrypted using public-key encryption. This technique overcomes one of the problems of public-key encryption, which is that it is slower than symmetric encryption.

Digital signature
A digital code that can be attached to an electronically transmitted message that uniquely identifies the sender. Like a written signature, the purpose of a digital signature is to guarantee that the individual sending the message really is who he or she claims to be. Digital signatures are especially important for electronic commerce and are a key component of most authentication schemes.

distributed port scan 
Denial-of-service attack that uses multiple source addresses to scan ports on a network.

DNS Cache Poisoning
DNS cache poisoning is a method used by online criminals to launch online attacks. This method supposes the domain name system's modification, which results in returning an incorrect IP address. The purpose is to divert traffic to a malicious server, which is controlled by hackers. That's why the DNS is considered poisoned and it should be taken down by the authorities.

DNS hijacking
DNS hijacking or DNS redirection is an online attack that overrides a computer's TCP/IP settings to direct communication to a malicious server controlled by cybercriminals.

Domain generation algorithm (DGA)
Domain generation algorithm (DGA) is a computer program used by various malware families to generate a large number of domains by creating slightly different variations of a certain domain name. The generated domains are used to hide traffic transmitted between the infected machines/networks and the command and control servers. This way, cyber criminals can cover their tracks and keep their anonymity from law enforcement and private cyber security organizations. For example, DGA domains are heavily used to hide botnets and the attacks they help launch.

Domain shadowing
Domain shadowing is a malicious tactic used by cyber criminals to build their infrastructure and launch attacks while remaining undetected. First, attackers steal and gather credentials for domain accounts. Using these stolen credentials, they log into the domain account and create subdomains which redirect traffic towards malicious servers, without the domain owner having any knowledge of this. Domain shadowing allows cyber attackers to bypass reputation-based filters and pass their malicious traffic as safe.

Dridex
Dridex is a strain of financial malware that uses Microsoft Office macros to infect information systems. Dridex is engineered to collect and steal banking credentials and additional personal information and its fundamental objective is banking fraud.

Drive-by attack
A drive-by attack is the unintentional download of a virus or malicious software (malware) onto your system. A drive-by attack will usually take advantage of (or “exploit”) a browser, app, or operating system that is out of date and has a security flaw.

Dual-homed bastion host
Identical in function to a bastion host but must have two network interfaces. Application gateways are typically installed on a dual-homed bastion host.

Dummy account
A false default account that generally triggers an alarm when accessed.

Dummy file
Intentionally misleading files to misinform an information seeker.

DumpSec
DumpSec is a security tool that dumps a variety of information about a system's users, file system, registry, permissions, password policy, and services.

Dyreza / Dyre
Dyreza (also called Dyre) is a banking Trojan (financial malware) that appeared in 2014, whose behavior is similar to the ZeuS family, although there is no connection between Dyreza and ZeuS. The malware hides in popular web browsers that millions of users employ to access the web and aims to retrieve sensitive financial information every time the victim connects to a banking website. Dyreza is capable of key-logging, circumventing SSL mechanisms and two-factor authentication, and is usually spread through phishing emails.



Encrypted Network
A network on which messages are encrypted using a special algorithm in order to prevent unauthorized people from reading them.

Electronic commerce
Conducting business on-line.

Electronic data interchange (edi)
The inter-organizational exchange of documents in standardized electronic form directly between participating computers.

Emanations Analysis
Gaining direct knowledge of communicated data by monitoring and resolving a signal that is emitted by a system and that contains the data but is not intended to communicate the data.

End-to-End Encryption
This process involves using communications encryption to make information unavailable to third parties. When being passed through a networking, the information will only be available to the sender and the receiver, preventing ISPs or application service providers to discover or tamper with the content of the communication.

Event logs
A log of user actions or system occurrences.

Execution control list (ECL)
A list of the resources and actions which a program can access/perform while it is executing.

Exponential Backoff Algorithm
An exponential backoff algorithm is used to adjust TCP timeout values on the fly so that network devices don't continue to timeout sending data over saturated links.

Exploit kits-as-a-service
Exploit kits as-a-service are a relatively recent business model employed by cyber criminals in which they create, manage and sell or rent exploit kits which are accessible and easy to use in cyber attacks. Exploit kits-as-a-service don’t require much technical expertise to be used, they are cheaper (especially if rented), they’re flexible and can be packed with different types of malware, offer broader reach, are usually difficult to detect and can be used to exploit a wide range of vulnerabilities. This business model makes it very profitable for exploit kit makers to sell their malicious code and increase their revenues.



Fail Safe
A Fail-Safe security system or device is an automatic protection system that intervenes when a hardware or software failure is detected.

False Rejects
False Rejects are when an authentication system fails to recognize a valid user.

False positive
A false positive is identified when a security solution detects a potential cyber threat which is, in fact, a harmless piece of software or a benign software behavior. For example, your antivirus could inform you that there's a malware threat on your PC, but it could happen that the program it's blocking is safe.

Fault Line Attacks
Fault Line Attacks use weaknesses between interfaces of systems to exploit gaps in coverage.

Fast Flux
Protection method used by botnets consisting of a continuous and fast change of the DNS records for a domain name through different IP addresses.

File binder
File binders are applications used by online criminals to connect multiple files together in one executable that can be used in launching malware attacks.

Fileless malware
Fileless malware are types of malicious code used in cyber attacks that don’t use files to launch the attack and carry on the infection on the affected device or network. The infection is run in the RAM memory of the device, so traditional antivirus and antimalware solutions can’t detect it at all. Malicious hackers use fileless malware to achieve stealth, privilege escalation, to gather sensitive information and achieve persistence in the system, so the malware infection can continue to carry on its effect for a longer period of time.

Firewall token
A string of information that identifies a specific user as packets pass through the firewall. A token is usually encrypted.

Flip button
In the malware world, a flip button appears when spyware or adware solutions trick users into following various actions and installing malicious software on the system.

Flooding
An attack that attempts to cause a failure in (especially, in the security of) a computer system or other data processing entity by providing more input than the entity can process properly.

Forest
A forest is a set of Active Directory domains that replicate their databases with each other.

Fork Bomb
A Fork Bomb works by using the fork() call to create a new process which is a copy of the original. By doing this repeatedly, all available processes on the machine can be taken up.

Form-Based Authentication
Form-Based Authentication uses forms on a webpage to ask a user to input username and password information.

Form-grabbing malware
This type of malware can harvest your confidential data when you're filling a web form, before the data is sent over the Internet, to a secure server. By doing this, the malware can avoid the security ensured by an HTTPS connection. Unfortunately, using a virtual keyboard, autofill or copy/paste won't protect your from this threat. What's more, the malware can categorize data according to type (username, password, etc.) and even grab de URL where you were inputting your information.

Forward Proxy
Forward Proxies are designed to be the server through which all requests are made.

Front-door attack
An attempt by a hacker to access a network by using a valid user name and password.

Fuzzing
The use of special regression testing tools to generate out-of-spec input for an application in order to find security vulnerabilities. Also see "regression testing".



Gateway
A system that provides relay services between two devices. Gateways can range from an Internet application such as a common gateway interface (CGI) to a firewall gateway that process traffic between two hosts. The term is very generic and will be used for a firewall component that routes or processes data between two separate networks.

gethostbyaddr
The gethostbyaddr DNS query is when the address of a machine is known and the name is needed.

gethostbyname
The gethostbyname DNS quest is when the name of a machine is known and the address is needed.

Glossary
To access all the items in the course glossary, click the Show All Terms button below.

Gnutella
An Internet file sharing utility. Gnutella acts as a server for sharing files while simultaneously acting as a client that searches for and downloads files from other users.



Hash algorithm
A numeric function which mixes the ordering of input values to hopefully get an even distribution. (Also, hash function)

Hashing
To generate a number from a string of text. The hash number is smaller than the text string.

Heartbleed vulnerability
Heartbleed is a security bug that appeared in 2014, which exposed information that was usually protected by SSL/TLS encryption. Because of a serious vulnerability that affected the OpenSSL library, attackers could steal data that was kept confidential by a type of encryption used to secure the Internet. This bug caused around 500.000 web servers (17% of all severs on the Internet) to be exposed to potential data theft.

Hijack Attack
A form of active wiretapping in which the attacker seizes control of a previously established communication association.

Hoax
A hoax is a false computer virus warning. You may receive such hoaxes via email, instant messaging or social media. Before acting on it, be sure to go online and check the validity of the claim. Also, when you have proof that it's fake, it's a good idea to inform the sender as well. Remember that such hoaxes can lead to malicious websites which can infect your devices with malware.

Honeymonkey
Automated system simulating a user browsing websites. The system is typically configured to detect web sites which exploit vulnerabilities in the browser. Also known as Honey Client.

Horizontal privilege escalation
the attacker is a normal, low-end user who accesses the information of other normal users. Credential theft.

Host-based intrusion prevention system (HIPS) 
A system or a program employed to protect critical computer systems containing crucial data against viruses and other Internet malware. Starting from the network layer all the way up to the application layer, HIPS protects from known and unknown malicious attacks.

HTTPS scanning
This is another name of a Man-in-the-Middle attack. Scanning HTTPS (Hypertext Transfer Protocol Secure) content allows the attackers to decrypt, analyze, and re-encrypt content between websites that use SSL (Secure Sockets Layer) for security and a user’s browser. This type of attack is usually used to snoop in on information exchanges and steal confidential data.

Hybrid Attack
A Hybrid Attack builds on the dictionary attack method by adding numerals and symbols to dictionary words.

Hypertext Markup Language (HTML)
The authoring language used to create documents on the World Wide Web.

Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP)
A TCP/IP application that uses a browser to access and retrieve Web pages from the server.



iDRAC
The Dell Remote Access Controller or DRAC is an out-of-band management platform on certain Dell servers. The platform may be provided on a separate expansion card, or integrated into the main board; when integrated, the platform is referred to as iDRAC.

Impression
An advertisement's appearance on an accessed Web page. For example, if you see two ads on a Web page, that's two impressions. Advertisers use impressions to measure the number of views their ads receive, and publishers often sell ad space according to impressions.

Incident Handling
Incident Handling is an action plan for dealing with intrusions, cyber-theft, denial of service, fire, floods, and other security-related events. It is comprised of a six step process: Preparation, Identification, Containment, Eradication, Recovery, and Lessons Learned.

Incremental Backups
Incremental backups are extremely important for keeping information safe and up to date. This type of backup will only back up the files that you’ve modified since performing the last backup. This means the backup is faster and you can ensure that you’ll always have all your worked backed up safely.

Inetd (xinetd)
Inetd (or Internet Daemon) is an application that controls smaller internet services like telnet, ftp, and POP.

Inference Attack
Inference Attacks rely on the user to make logical connections between seemingly unrelated pieces of information.

Input Validation Attacks
Input Validations Attacks are where an attacker intentionally sends unusual input in the hopes of confusing an application.

Integrity Star Property
In Integrity Star Property a user cannot read data of a lower integrity level then their own.

Internal bastion host
Firewalls that reside inside the internal network and are normally used as application gateways that receive all incoming traffic from external hosts.

Internet Control Message Protocol (ICMP)
A protocol used to communicate errors or other conditions at the IP layer

Internet Services Application Programming Interface (ISAPI)
A method developed by Microsoft to write programs that communicate with Web servers through OLE.

Internet worm
Internet worms were created by researchers in the 1980s to find a reliable way of growing the Internet through self-replicating programs that can distribute themselves automatically through the network. An Internet worm does exactly that: it distributes itself across the web by using the computers’ Internet connection to reproduce.

Interrupt
An Interrupt is a signal that informs the OS that something has occurred.

Intrusion detection
Intrusion detection is a relatively new technology used with firewalls. It allows firewalls to perform specified actions when suspicious activity occurs.
An unauthorized act of bypassing the security mechanisms of a network or information system.

IP Flood
A denial of service attack that sends a host more echo request ("ping") packets than the protocol implementation can handle.

IP spoofing
A hacker imitating an Internet Protocol (IP) device that has an IP address allowing the hacker to gain access to the system.



Jail
A separate system that deliberately provides inaccurate information allowing an administrator time to detect and catch the hacker.

Jailbreaking
Bypassing the manufacturer's programming restrictions to take full control of a smartphone or other device — is also an example of vertical privilege escalation. 

Jump Bag
A Jump Bag is a container that has all the items necessary to respond to an incident inside to help mitigate the effects of delayed reactions.



Kerberos
A system developed at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology that depends on passwords and symmetric cryptography (DES) to implement ticket-based, peer entity authentication service and access control service distributed in a client-server network environment.

Kovter
Kovter is a Trojan whose primary objective is performing click-fraud operations on the PC it compromises. However, in 2015 Kovter incorporated new cloaking tricks in order to evade detection, which is why cyber criminals started using it to deliver other types of malware, such as ransomware, or to recruit PCs into botnets.



Lanham act
A 1964 law that was an important early step toward U.S. trademark legislation.

Lattice Techniques
Lattice Techniques use security designations to determine access to information.

Least Privilege
Least Privilege is the principle of allowing users or applications the least amount of permissions necessary to perform their intended function.

Legion
Software to detect unprotected shares.

Level of Concern
This is the rating which indicates which protection tactics and processes should be applied to an information system to keep it safe and operating at an optimum level. A level of concern can be basic, medium or high.

Likelihood of Occurrence
This defines the probability of a specific threats to exploit a given vulnerability, based on a subjective analysis.

List Based Access Control
List Based Access Control associates a list of users and their privileges with each object.

Locky
Locky is a type of encrypting malware (also known as ransomware) distributed through Microsoft Office Macros and targeting Windows-running PCs. The name comes from the fact that, once the victim’s PC is infected, the ransomware will scramble and encrypt all the data on that PC, setting every file extension to .locky. Locky is spread through spam email campaigns, which make heavy use of spoofing, the same as the cyber criminals behind Dridex operate. In order to get the data decrypted, Locky creators ask for a ransom, which, if not paid, will leave the data useless if the victim doesn’t have a backup.

Log Clipping
Log clipping is the selective removal of log entries from a system log to hide a compromise.

Logic bombs
Logic bombs are programs or snippets of code that execute when a certain predefined event occurs. Logic bombs may also be set to go off on a certain date or when a specified set of circumstances occurs.

Logic Gate
A logic gate is an elementary building block of a digital circuit. Most logic gates have two inputs and one output. As digital circuits can only understand binary, inputs and outputs can assume only one of two states, 0 or 1.

Login scripts
Scripts executed to customize a user’s environment after the user logs on with a valid user ID and password.

Low Impact
This level of impact of a cyber threat or cyber attack on an organization shows that there could be a loss of confidentiality, integrity, or availability, but with limited consequences. This includes reducing the capabilities of the organization, while still retaining the ability to function, but also other minor damages, financial loss or harm to people.



MD5
MD5 is one in the series (including MD2 and MD4) of message digest algorithms developed by Ron Rivest. It involves appending a length field to a message and padding it to a multiple of 512-bit blocks. Each of these 512-bit blocks is fed through a four-round process to result in a 128-bit message digest.

Macro virus
Malware (ie malicious software) that uses the macro capabilities of common applications such as spreadsheets and word processors to infect data.

Malvertisement
This is an online ad infected with malicious code that can even be injected into a safe, legitimate website, without the website owner’s knowledge. This is short for “malware advertisement".
See also: Malvertising

Malware-as-a-service
This type of malware is developed by cyber criminals to require little or no expertise in hacking, to be flexible, polymorphic, offer a broader reach and often comes packed with ready-coded targets. Malware-as-a-service can be bought or rented on the deep web and in cyber criminal communities, and sometimes can even include technical support from its makers and their team, which they run as a business.The main purpose behind it is making as much money as possible.

Masquerade Attack
A type of attack in which one system entity illegitimately poses as (assumes the identity of) another entity.

Maximum Tolerable Downtime
This refers to the maximum amount of time that organizational processes and activities can be disrupted without causing severe consequences for the organization’s mission.

Mazar BOT
Mazar BOT is a strain of malware targeting Android devices which first emerged in February 2016. The malware spreads through SMSs sent to random numbers, which include a link shortened through a URL shortner service (such as bit.ly). Once clicked, the link installs the Mazar BOT malware on the affected device, gaining the ability to write, send, receive and read SMS, access Internet connections, call phones, erase the phone it’s installed on and many more. Mazar BOT doesn’t run on smartphones running Android with the Russian language option. Spoofing has also been observed in Mazar BOT attacks.

Measures of Effectiveness (MOE)
Measures of Effectiveness is a probability model based on engineering concepts that allows one to approximate the impact a give action will have on an environment. In Information warfare it is the ability to attack or defend within an Internet environment.

Melissa virus
A specific virus embedded in a Microsoft Word document, infecting the user's system when the document is opened.

Moderate Impact
When this type of impact is estimated or observed on an information system, it means that confidentiality, integrity, or availability have suffered a significant blow. The organization may record barely working primary functions and significant damage to its assets, finances and individuals.

Monoculture
Monoculture is the case where a large number of users run the same software, and are vulnerable to the same attacks.

Morris Worm
A worm program written by Robert T. Morris, Jr. that flooded the ARPANET in November, 1988, causing problems for thousands of hosts.

moving target defense  
The presentation of a dynamic attack surface, increasing an adversary's work factor necessary to probe, attack, or maintain presence in a cyber target.



Narrowcast
To send data to a specific list of recipients.

Network address translation (NAT)
Network Address Translation (NAT) hides internal IP addresses from the external network. When a firewall is configured to provide NAT, all internal addresses are translated to public IP addresses when connecting to an external source.

Network-Based IDS
A network-based IDS system monitors the traffic on its network segment as a data source. This is generally accomplished by placing the network interface card in promiscuous mode to capture all network traffic that crosses its network segment. Network traffic on other segments, and traffic on other means of communication (like phone lines) can't be monitored. Network-based IDS involves looking at the packets on the network as they pass by some sensor. The sensor can only see the packets that happen to be carried on the network segment it's attached to. Packets are considered to be of interest if they match a signature.Network-based intrusion detection passively monitors network activity for indications of attacks. Network monitoring offers several advantages over traditional host-based intrusion detection systems. Because many intrusions occur over networks at some point, and because networks are increasingly becoming the targets of attack, these techniques are an excellent method of detecting many attacks which may be missed by host-based intrusion detection mechanisms.

Network News Transfer Protocol (NNTP)
A TCP/IP application that is one-to-many communication: a message is posted to a single location, and any number of users can contact the NNTP server to retrieve it.

Network topology
The type of network (ethernet or token ring), the IP address range, the subnet mask, and the naming scheme. The most common network topologies are the star, bus, ring and hybrid.

Neutrino
Neutrino is a famous exploit kit which has been constantly evolving since it first appeared in 2013. This exploit kit rose to fame because of its user friendly features and low entry barrier to using it. Neutrino includes a user-friendly control panel, continuous monitoring of antivirus detection rates, infostealer capabilities, recommendations of which exploits to use and more. Neutrino is a tool often used to compromise PCs and deliver different types of malware, and is itself delivered through malvertising campaigns and web injects. Neutrino is also available through the exploit kit-as-a-service model, where attackers can rent the exploit kit and increase their profits with smaller investments.

Non-Printable Character
A character that doesn't have a corresponding character letter to its corresponding ASCII code. Examples would be the Linefeed, which is ASCII character code 10 decimal, the Carriage Return, which is 13 decimal, or the bell sound, which is decimal 7. On a PC, you can often add non-printable characters by holding down the Alt key, and typing in the decimal value (i.e., Alt-007 gets you a bell). There are other character encoding schemes, but ASCII is the most prevalent.

Non-repudiation
The ability to demonstrate that an information exchange or financial transaction took place.

Nuclear Exploit Kit
Nuclear is a highly effective exploit kit which appeared in 2010 and gave cyber criminals the opportunity to exploit a wide range of software vulnerabilities in applications such as Flash, Silverlight, PDF reader, Internet Explorer and more. Polymorphic in nature, Nuclear advanced over the years into a notorious tool used for launching Zero Day attacks, spreading ransomware or for data exfiltration operations. Nuclear was often used in high-volume compromises and gave attackers the possibility to customize their attacks to specific locations and computer configurations. This constantly evolving exploit kit features various obfuscation tactics in order to avoid being detected by traditional anti-virus and anti-malware solutions.

Null Session
Known as Anonymous Logon, it is a way of letting an anonymous user retrieve information such as user names and shares over the network or connect without authentication. It is used by applications such as explorer.exe to enumerate shares on remote servers.



Object
A file, program, service/daemon, or resource that is maintained and controlled by an operating system.

Offline Attack
This type of attack can happen when an attacker manages to gain access to data through offline means, such as eavesdropping, by penetrating a system and stealing confidential information or looking over someone’s shoulder and obtaining credentials to secret data.

One-way encryption
A type of encryption where information is encrypted once and cannot be decrypted. One-way encryption is typically used for creating message digests.

Operation Tovar
Operation Tovar was an international, collaborative effort undertaken by law enforcement agencies and private security companies from multiple countries. The operation’s main objective was to take down the Zeus GameOver botnet, which was believed to be used for distributing the CryptoLocker ransomware. Heimdal Security was also involved in this effort, alongside the U.S. Department of Justice, Europol, the FBI, Microsoft, Symantec, Sophos, Trend Micro and more.

Outsourcing
Obtaining services by using someone else’s resources.



Packet filter
A type of firewall devices that process network traffic on a packet-by-packet basis. Packet filter devices allow or block packets, and are typically implemented through standard routers.

Packet sniffer
A device or program that is used to monitor traffic on a network, can be installed anywhere in a networked system, and is virtually undetectable. Sniffers are used for legitimate network management functions or for stealing information off a network.

Packet trace
The activity of learning where a packet of information has come from. Since any information sent across the Internet has likely passed between at least five or six computers, it is often necessary to learn the route by which that information came.

Parasitic viruses
A type of virus that’s capable of associating itself with a file or inserting itself into a file. To remain undetected, this virus will give control back to the software it infected. When the operating system looks at the infected software, it will continue to give it rights to run as usual. This means that the virus will be able to copy itself, install itself into memory or make other malicious changes to the infected PC. Although this type of virus appeared early on in the history of computer infections, it’s now making a comeback.

passive attack  
An actual assault perpetrated by an intentional threat source that attempts to learn or make use of information from a system, but does not attempt to alter the system, its resources, its data, or its operations.

Password Authentication Procedure (PAP) is a procedure used by Point-to-Point Protocol servers to validate a connection request. Proceedure used by CHAP.  PAP works as follows:
After the link is established, the requestor sends a password and an id to the server.
The server either validates the request and sends back an acknowledgement, terminates the connection, or offers the requestor another chance.

Password cracking
An attempt by a hacker to access a network using possible passwords. A dictionary file is often used to crack passwords.

Password sniffing
Finding a way to intercept the transmission of a password during the authentication process. A sniffer is a program used to intercept passwords.

Payment gateway
The system (usually software) that interfaces between the merchant and the merchant’s bank to perform credit card authorizations.

Perl
A cross-platform programming language that enables users to write custom CGI programs, as well as system management programs.

pharming
This is a more sophisticated form of MITM attack. A user’s session is redirected to a masquerading website. This can be achieved by corrupting a DNS server on the Internet and pointing a URL to the masquerading website’s IP. Almost all users use a URL like www.worldbank.com instead of the real IP (192.86.99.140) of the website. Changing the pointers on a DNS server, the URL can be redirected to send traffic to the IP of the pseudo website. At the pseudo website, transactions can be mimicked and information like login credentials can be gathered. With this the attacker can access the real www.worldbank.com site and conduct transactions using the credentials of a valid user on that website.

Phishing
The use of e-mails that appear to originate from a trusted source to trick a user into entering valid credentials at a fake website. Typically the e-mail and the web site looks like they are part of a bank the user is doing business with.

Physical line trace
The attempt to determine the port or telephone line a hacker has used.

Ping Scan
A ping scan looks for machines that are responding to ICMP Echo Requests.

Ping Sweep
An attack that sends ICMP echo requests ("pings") to a range of IP addresses, with the goal of finding hosts that can be probed for vulnerabilities.

Point-to-Point Protocol (PPP)
A protocol for connecting to the Internet. PPP provides error checking and compression of the IP and TCP headers.

Poison Reverse
Split horizon with poisoned reverse (more simply, poison reverse) does include such routes in updates, but sets their metrics to infinity. In effect, advertising the fact that there routes are not reachable.

Polyinstantiation
Polyinstantiation is the ability of a database to maintain multiple records with the same key. It is used to prevent inference attacks.

Polymorphic code
Polymorphic code is capable of mutating and changing while maintaining the initial algorithm. Each time it runs, the code morphs, but keeps its function. This tactic is usually used by malware creators to keep their attacks covert and undetected by reactive security solutions.

Polymorphic engine
A polymorphic engine is used to generate polymorphic malware. This is a computer program capable of transforming a program in derivative versions (different versions of code), but which perform the same function. Polymorphic engines rely on encryption and obfuscation to work, and are used almost exclusively by malware creators and other cyber criminals. Using this type of engine, malicious hackers can create malware types that can’t be detected by antivirus engines or have a very low detection rate.

Polymorphic packer
This is a software tool used for bundling up different types of malware in a single package (for example, in an email attachment). Malicious actors use polymorphic packers because they’re able to transform over time, so they can remain undetected by traditional security solutions for longer periods of time.

Polymorphism
Polymorphism is the process by which malicious software changes its underlying code to avoid detection.

Poweliks
Poweliks is a Trojan designed to perform click-fraud operations on the affected PC. Its specific character is given by the fact that it’s a type of fileless malware, which makes it very difficult to be detected by traditional, signature-based anti-malware and antivirus solutions. Poweliks installs itself in the Windows registry, where it can inject itself into essential Windows functions. This also helps Poweliks achieve persistence on the infected PC. This malware can be used to also download other threats onto the victim’s PC, such as ransomware delivered through malvertising.

Power virus
This type of computer virus is capable of executing a specific code that triggers the maximum CPU power dissipation (heat generated by the central processing units). Consequently, the computer’s cooling ability would be impaired and the virus could cause the system to overheat. One of the potential effects is permanent physical damage to the hardware. Power viruses are used both by good actors, to test components, but can also be used by cyber criminals.

Program Infector
A program infector is a piece of malware that attaches itself to existing program files.

Promiscuous Mode
When a machine reads all packets off the network, regardless of who they are addressed to. This is used by network administrators to diagnose network problems, but also by unsavory characters who are trying to eavesdrop on network traffic (which might contain passwords or other information).

Proxy server
Proxy servers communicate with external servers on behalf of the internal clients. When the terms application gateway or circuit-level gateway are used, they refer to the specific services provided by each form of firewall.

Push publishing
A means of reaching an audience by automatically delivering information, such as news headlines or product updates, directly to a user's computer in a customized format at designated times.



QAZ
A network worm.



Race Condition
A race condition exploits the small window of time between a security control being applied and when the service is used.

Radiation Monitoring
Radiation monitoring is the process of receiving images, data, or audio from an unprotected source by listening to radiation signals.

regression analysis
The use of scripted tests which are used to test software for all possible input is should expect. Typically developers will create a set of regression tests that are executed before a new version of a software is released. Also see "fuzzing".

Remote access Trojan / RAT
Remote Access Trojans (RATs) use the victim’s access permissions and infects computers to give cyber attackers unlimited access to the data on the PC. Cyber criminals can use RATs to exfiltrate confidential information. RATs include backdoors into the computer system and can enlist the PC into a botnet, while also spreading to other devices. Current RATs can bypass strong authentication and can access sensitive applications, which are later used to exfiltrate information to cyber criminal-controlled servers and websites.

Replay attacks
This type of attack uses authentication data that cyber criminals have previously gathered to re-transmit this confidential information. The purpose is to gain unauthorized access or produce other malicious effects.

Request for Comment (RFC)
The written definitions of the protocols and policies of the Internet.

Residual risk
This is a type of risk that remains after all available security measures and tactics have been applied. Because there is no such thing as 100% cyber security, a residual risk remains for each identifiable cyber threat.

Reverse Address Resolution Protocol (RARP)
A network protocol that causes a host to broadcasts its physical address. The RARP server then replies with the host’s IP address.

Reverse engineering
This is a technique heavily used by cyber security researchers who constantly take malware apart to analyze it. This way, they can understand and observe how the malware works and can devise security solutions that can protect users against that type of malware and its tactics. This is one of the most valuable activities in cyber security intelligence gathering.

Reverse proxy service
A company's registered Web or email server located outside a network's firewall system is used to prevent public users from contacting the Web server directly. When public users access the reverse proxy Web server, it contacts the Web server that resides behind the firewall.

Role Based Access Control
Role based access control assigns users to roles based on their organizational functions and determines authorization based on those roles.

Rogue security software
Rogue security software (usually antivirus) is a common Internet scam used by cyber criminals to mislead victims and infect their PCs with malware. Malicious actors could also use fake antivirus to trick victims into paying money or extort them (like ransomware does) into paying for having the rogue software removed. So please only buy security software from trusted vendors or from the software makers themselves.

Rootkit
A rootkit is a type of malicious software (but not always) which gives the attackers privileged access to a computer and is activated before the operating system boots up. Rookits are created to conceal the existence of other programs or processes from being spotted by traditional detection methods. For example, rookit malware is capable of covering up the fact that a PC has been compromised. By gaining administrator rights on the affected PC (through exploits or social engineering), attackers can maintain the infection for a long time and are notoriously difficult to remove.

Rogueware
This is a type of deceitful malware which claims to be a trusted and harmless software program (such as antivirus). Cyber criminals use rogueware to harvest data from their victims or to trick them intro paying money. Often, rogueware also includes adware functions, which adds a burden and a potential risk to the infected PC.

Rule Set Based Access Control (RSBAC)
Rule Set Based Access Control targets actions based on rules for entities operating on objects.



S/Key
A security mechanism that uses a cryptographic hash function to generate a sequence of 64-bit, one-time passwords for remote user login. The client generates a one-time password by applying the MD4 cryptographic hash function multiple times to the user's secret key. For each successive authentication of the user, the number of hash applications is reduced by one.

Screen scraper
A virus or physical device that logs information sent to a visual display to capture private or personal information.

Screened host firewall
A firewall that uses a bastion host to support both circuit- and application-level gateways and creates a demilitarized zone (DMZ) that functions as an isolated network between the Internet and the internal network.

Screened subnet firewall
A type of firewall that uses a bastion host to support both circuit- and application-level gateways and creates a demilitarized zone(DMZ) that functions as an isolated network between the Internet and the internal network.

Screening router
Examines inbound and outbound packets based upon filter rules. Screening router is another term for a packet filter.

Secure electronic transactions (set)
A standard enabling secure credit card transactions on the Internet.

Secure hash algorithm (SHA).
This function was developed by the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) and is based heavily on Ron Rivest's MD series of algorithms. The message is first padded with MD5, then fed through four rounds, which are more complex than the ones used in MD5. The resulting message digest is 160 bits long.

Secure HTTP (SHTTP)
A form of encryption that takes place at the hypertext markup language level. This allows a Web browser to transfer sensitive information across the Internet.

Secure Multipurpose Internet Mail Extension (S/MIME)
A specification for secure electronic mail. S/MIME was designed to add security to e-mail messages in MIME format. The security services offered are authentication (using digital signatures) and privacy (using encryption).

Secure Sockets Layer (SSL)
A technology embedded in Web servers and browsers that encrypts traffic.

Security mechanism
The systems and software that provide the different security services (access control, authentication, data integrity, data confidentiality, and nonrepudiation).

Security service
A basic method for providing data security. Security services include authentication, access control, data integrity, data confidentiality, and nonrepudiation.

Serial Line Internet Protocol (SLIP)
A data link layer protocol, a simple form of connecting to the Internet.

Shadow Password Files
A system file in which encryption user password are stored so that they aren't available to people who try to break into the system.

Shylock
Shylock is a banking malware created to steal users’ banking credentials for fraudulent purposes. Shylock is based on the leaked ZeuS code and acts similar to Zeus GameOver (created based on the same malicious code), because it uses a (DGA) Domain generation algorithm to hide its traffic and remain undetected by traditional antivirus and anti-malware solutions. Shylock is delivered mainly through drive-by downloads on compromised websites which are hit by malvertising, but also through malicious JavaScript injects.

Simple Mail Transfer Protocol (SMTP)
The Internet standard protocol to transfer electronic mail messages from one computer to another. It specifies how two mail systems interact, as well as the format of control messages they exchange to transfer mail.

Simple Network Management Protocol (SNMP)
A TCP/IP application that allows administrators to check the status and sometimes modify the configuration of SNMP nodes.

Single-homed bastion host
A bastion host that has only one network interface and is normally used for application-level gateway firewalls. 

Single-purpose bastion host
A separate bastion host dedicated to a single application.

Smurf attack
A type of denial-of-service attack in which a series of pings are sent to a remote host to inundate the host's system.

Sniffer
A program used to intercept passwords.

Social engineering
The use of tricks and disinformation to gain access to passwords and other sensitive information.

Spillage
Information spillage happen when data is moved from a safe, protected system to another system, which is less secure. This can happen to all types of data, from health information to financial or personal data. If the system the data is moved to is less secure, people who should not have access to this information may be able to access it.

Split Horizon
Split horizon is a algorithm for avoiding problems caused by including routes in updates sent to the gateway from which they were learned.

Spoofing
A form of identity theft in which a hacker attempts to defeat authentication. Specific examples include IP spoofing, ARP spoofing, router spoofing, and DNS spoofing.

Stack Mashing
Stack mashing is the technique of using a buffer overflow to trick a computer into executing arbitrary code.

Star Property
In Star Property, a user cannot write data to a lower classification level without logging in at that lower classification level.

State Machine
A system that moves through a series of progressive conditions.

Stateful inspection
Stateful inspection, a term introduced by CheckPoint Corporation, allows a firewall to analyze packets and view them in context. (Also called stateful multi-layer inspection)

Static Host Tables
Static host tables are text files that contain hostname and address mapping.

Stealthing
Stealthing is a term that refers to approaches used by malicious code to conceal its presence on the infected system.

Stealware
This is a type of malware which is capable of transferring data or money to a third, malicious party. This type of malware usually targets affiliate transactions. It then uses an HTTP cookie to redirect the commission earned by an affiliate marketer to an unauthorized third party.

Steganalysis
Steganalysis is the process of detecting and defeating the use of steganography.

Strong Star Property
In Strong Star Property, a user cannot write data to higher or lower classifications levels than their own.

Supply chain attack
This type of attack aims to inflict damage upon an organization by leveraging vulnerabilities in its supply network. Cyber criminals often manipulate with hardware or software during the manufacturing stage to implant rootkits or tie in hardware-based spying elements. Attackers can later use these implants to attack the organization they’re after.

Suspicious files and behavior
Suspicious behavior is identified when files exhibit an unusual behavior pattern. For example, if files start copying themselves to a system folder, this might be a sign that those file have been compromised by malware. Traditional antivirus solutions incorporate this type of detection to spot and block malware.

Symbolic Links
Special files which point at another file.

Symmetric encryption
A type of encryption where the same key is used to encrypt and decrypt the message.

SYN Flood
A denial of service attack that sends a host more TCP SYN packets (request to synchronize sequence numbers, used when opening a connection) than the protocol implementation can handle.

System snooping
The action of a hacker who enters a computer network and begins mapping the contents of the system.



Tamper
To deliberately alter a system's logic, data, or control information to cause the system to perform unauthorized functions or services.

TeslaCrypt
TeslaCrypt is a ransomware Trojan, which was first designed to target computers that has specific computer games installed. However, in the past months, this strain of cryptoware had broadened its reach to affect all users (mainly Windows users), not just gamers. As with every other ransomware, TeslaCrypt creators use spam to distribute the infection and, once they get into the victim’s PC, all the data on the device will be encrypted and held hostage. The ransom can vary between $150 and $1000 worth of bitcoins which the victim has to pay in order to get the decryption key. In March 2016, TeslaCrypt 4.0 emerged, featuring unbreakable encryption and rendering any available TeslaCrypt decoders useless.

Time bomb
This is a type of malware that stays dormant on the system for a definite amount of time, until a specific event triggers it. This type of behavior is present in malware to make detection by security software more difficult.

Tiny Fragment Attack
With many IP implementations it is possible to impose an unusually small fragment size on outgoing packets. If the fragment size is made small enough to force some of a TCP packet's TCP header fields into the second fragment, filter rules that specify patterns for those fields will not match. If the filtering implementation does not enforce a minimum fragment size, a disallowed packet might be passed because it didn't hit a match in the filter. STD 5, RFC 791 states: Every Internet module must be able to forward a datagram of 68 octets without further fragmentation. This is because an Internet header may be up to 60 octets, and the minimum fragment is 8 octets.

Tripwire
An account in a network used to alert a security administrator of a potential hacker when penetration of the network begins.

Triple-Wrapped
S/MIME usage: data that has been signed with a digital signature, and then encrypted, and then signed again.

Token
In security, a token is a physical electronic device used to validate a user’s identity. Tokens are usually part of the two-factor or multi-factor authentication mechanisms. Tokens can also replace passwords in some cases and can be found under the form of a key fob, a USB, an ID card or a smart card.

Traffic Encryption Key (TEK)
This is a term specific to network security, which depicts the key used to encrypt the traffic within a network.

Trusted Ports
Trusted ports are ports below number 1024 usually allowed to be opened by the root user.

Typhoid adware
This is a cyber security threat that employs a Man-in-the-middle attack in order to inject advertising into certain web pages a user visits while using a public network, like a public, non-encrypted WiFi hotspot. In this case, the computer being used doesn’t need to have adware on it, so installing a traditional antivirus can’t counteract the threat. While the ads themselves can be non-malicious, they can expose users to other threats. For example, the ads could promote a fake antivirus that is actually malware or a phishing attack.



UDP (User Datagram Protocol)
A connectionless protocol at the transport layer of the TCP/IP protocol stack, often used for broadcast-type protocols such as audio or video traffic.

UDP Scan
UDP scans perform scans to determine which UDP ports are open.

URL injection
A URL (or link) injection is when a cyber criminal created new pages on a website owned by someones else, that contain spammy words or links. Sometimes, these pages also contain malicious code that redirects your users to other web pages or makes the website's web server contribute to a DDoS attack. URL injection usually happens because of vulnerabilities in server directories or software used to operate the website, such as an outdated Wordpress or plugins.



Vaccine
In cyber security, a vaccine is a digital solution that focuses on neutralizing attacks once they gain unauthorized access into an information system. Cyber vaccines exploit flaws in the way some malware strains work and spread, so their distribution and effects can be blocked. A cyber vaccine could train an information system to detect and stop cyber attacks after they’ve penetrated the system/PC just before the attacker can do any actual damage. Cyber vaccines are a new concept, so there is a lot of work to be done for their advancement. They can potentially be used to stop ransomware, block data exfiltration, intercept phishing attacks, block Zero Day exploits and more.

Value added network (VAN)
A network that provides special communication over leased lines, usually offering enhanced services. A Value Added Network usually offers some service or information that is not readily available on public networks.

Vawtrak / Neverquest
Vawtrak (or Neverquest) is a classic infostealer malware, which aims to mainly steal login credentials for banking portals, either stored on the local device or transmitted from the affected PC, but it can also harvest other financial institutions. Vawtrak uses the stolen credentials to gain unauthorized access to bank account and commit financial fraud. The infostealer has other capabilities too, such as taking screenshots of the infected device, capturing videos and launching man-in-the-middle attacks. Vawtrak is delivered through drive-by downloads in compromised websites or by injecting malicious code on legitimate websites, but it also spreads through phishing campaigns in social media networks and spam.

Vishing
Vishing (short for Voice over IP phishing) is a form of phishing performed over the telephone or voice over IP (VoIP) technology, such as Skype. Unsuspecting victims are duped into revealing sensitive or personal information via telephone calls, VoIP calls or even voice mail.

Virtual Private Network (VPN)
An extended local area network (LAN) that enables an organization to conduct secure, real-time communication.

Virus
Self-replicating software used to infect a computer.



Wabbits
A wabbit is one of four main classes of malware, among viruses, worms and Trojan horses. It's a form of computer program that repeatedly replicates on the local system. Wabbits can be programmed to have malicious side effects. A fork bomb is an example of a wabbit: it's a form of DoS attack against a computer that uses the fork function. A fork bomb quickly creats a large number of procceses, eventually crashing the system. Wabbits don't attempt to spread to other computers across network.

Watering Hole
Watering Hole is the name of a computer attack strategy that was detected as early as 2009 and 2010. The victim is a particular, very targeted group, such as a company, organization, agency, industry, etc. The attacker spends time to gain strategic information about the target: observes which legitimate websites are more often visited by the members of the group. Then the attacker exploits a vulnerability and infects one of those trusted websites with malware, without the knowledge of the site's owner. Eventually, someone from that organization will fall into the trap and get their computer infected. This way, the attacker gains access to the target's entire network. These attacks work because of the constant vulnerabilities in website technologies, even with the most popular systems, such as WordPress, making it easier than ever to stealthily compromise websites.

Web bug
A web bug, also called a web beacon or pixel tag, is a small, transparent GIF image, usually not bigger than 1 pixel. It's embedded in an email or webpage and is usually used in connection with cookies. Web bugs are designed to monitor your activity and they load when you open an email or visit a website. Most common uses are marketing-related: for email tracking (to see if readers are opening the emails they receive, when they open them), web analytics (to see how many people visited a website), advertisement statistics (to find out how often an ad appears or is being viewed), IP addresses gathering, type of browser used.

Web content filtering software
A web content filtering software is a program that will screen an incoming web page and restrict or control its content. It is used by governments that can apply them for censorship, by ISPs to block copyright infringement, by employers to sometimes block personal email clients or social media networks, by a school, by parents, etc. This software can block pages that include copyright infringement material, pornographic content, social networks, etc.

Web server
A central computer system that hosts a Web site and enables remote clients to access the pages of the site.

Webattacker
Webattacker is a do-it-yourself malware creation kit that demands minimal technical knowledge to be manipulated and used. It includes scripts that simplify the task of infecting computers and spam-sending techniques.

Voice Firewall
A physical discontinuity in a voice network that monitors, alerts and controls inbound and outbound voice network activity based on user-defined call admission control (CAC) policies, voice application layer security threats or unauthorized service use violations.

Voice Intrusion Prevention System (IPS)
Voice IPS is a security management system for voice networks which monitors voice traffic for multiple calling patterns or attack/abuse signatures to proactively detect and prevent toll fraud, Denial of Service, telecom attacks, service abuse, and other anomalous activity.

Whaling
Whaling is a form of sophisticated phishing whose objective is to collect sensitive data about a target. What’s different from phishing is that whaling goes after high-profile, famous and wealthy targets, such as celebrities, CEO’s, top-level management and other powerful or rich individuals. By using the phished information, fraudsters and cyber criminals can trick victims into revealing even more confidential or personal data or they can be extorted and suffer from financial fraud.

War Chalking
War chalking is marking areas, usually on sidewalks with chalk, that receive wireless signals that can be accessed.

War Dialer
A computer program that automatically dials a series of telephone numbers to find lines connected to computer systems, and catalogs those numbers so that a cracker can try to break into the systems.

Web storefront
The part of a virtual enterprise that allows a client/end-user to interact with the server-side elements, usually in the form of buying and selling.

WHOIS
An IP for finding information about resources on networks.

Winnuke
A program that exploits the Windows TCP/IP stack causing Windows machines running an older version of the TCP/IP protocol stack to either crash or lock up.

Wiretapping
Monitoring and recording data that is flowing between two points in a communication system.

Worm
A computer program that can run independently, can propagate a complete working version of itself onto other hosts on a network, and may consume computer resources destructively.



Zero Day
A Zero Day or Zero Hour attack are attacks that use vulnerabilities in computer software that cyber criminals have discovered and software makers have not patched (because they weren't aware that those vulnerabilities exist). These are often exploited by cyber attackers before the software or security companies become aware of them. Sometimes, Zero Days are discovered by security vendors or researchers and kept private until the company patches the vulnerabilities. Zero Day exploits (actual code that can use a security hole to carry out an attack) are used or shared by attackers before the software developer finds out about the vulnerability.

ZeuS / Zbot
Zeus, also known as Zbot, is a notorious banking Trojan which infects Windows users and tries to retrieve confidential information from the infected computers. Once installed, it also tries to download configuration files and updates from the Internet. Its purpose is to steal private data from the victims, such as system information, passwords, banking credentials or other financial details. Zeus could be customized to gather banking details in specific countries and by using a vast array of methods. Using the retrieved information, cyber criminals could log into banking accounts and make unauthorized money transfers through a complex network of computers, thus leading to severe banking fraud. Operation Tovar, carried out in 2014, took down the ZeuS network of control and command servers, as it had done millions of dollars in damages and spread very quickly.

Zeus GameOver / Zeus P2P
Zeus GameOver is a variant of the ZeuS/Zbot family – the infamous financial stealing malware – which relied on a peer-to-peer botnet infrastructure to work. Zeus GameOver was used by cyber criminals to collect financial information (credentials, credit card numbers, passwords, etc.) and any other personal information which could be used to access the victim’s online banking accounts. GameOver Zeus is estimated to have infected 1 million users around the world and it was taken down in mid-2014 through Operation Tovar.

Zip bomb
A Zip Bomb, also known as Zip of Death or Decompression Bomb, is a malicious archive file. When uncompressed, it expands dangerously, requiring large amounts of time, disk space and memory, causing the system to crash. Usually it's a small file, only up to a few hundred kylobytes, in the form of a loop, which will continuosly unpack itself until all system resources are exhausted. It's designed in order to disable the antivirus software, so that a more traditional virus sent afterwards could get into the system wihtout being detected.

Zombie
A zombie computer is one connected to the Internet, that in appearance is performing normally, but can be controlled by a hacker who has remote access to it and sends commands through an open port. Zombies are mostly used to perform malicious tasks, such as spreading spam or other infected data to other computers, or launch of DoS (Denial of Service) attacks, with the owner being unaware of it.
