

Networking Terms


Abandonment: (1) The decision ofa carrier to give up or to discontinue service over a route. Railroads must seek ICC permission to abandon routes.
(2) As in the phrase "call abandonment". This refers to people who, being placed on hold in an incoming call, elect to hang up ("abandon") the call.
Call centers monitor closely the "abandonment rate" as a measure oftheir inefficiency.

Accredited Standards Committee (ASC): A committee of the ANSI chartered in 1979 to develop UNIFORM STANDARDS FOR THE ELECTRONIC INTERCHANGE OF BUSINESS
DOCUMENTS. The committee develops and maintains U.S. GENERIC STANDARDS (X12) FOR ELECTRONIC DATA INTERCHANGE.

ACD: See: Automated Call Distribution

Acknowledgment: TYPICALLY THIS IS A RESPONSE, EITHER ELECTRONIC OR AS A PHYSICAL DOCUMENT, WHICH CONFIRMS THE RECEIPT ofan order from the supplier
to the buyer.

Action Message: A system message usually created during MRP calculations to call attention to a current or potential problem and suggest
corrective action.

Action Plan: A specific method or process to achieve the results called for by one or more objectives. An action plan may be a simpler version of a
project plan.

Activity Dictionary: A listing and description of activities that provides a common/standard definition of activities across the organization. An
activity dictionary can include information about an activity and/or its relationships, such as activity description, business process, function source,
whether value-added, inputs, outputs, supplier, customer, output measures, cost drivers, attributes, tasks, and other information as desired to describe
the activity.

Activity Network Diagram: An arrow diagramused in planning and managing processes and projects.

Advance Material Request: A request for materials which is created in advance offormal need dueto long lead times for components, etc.

Aftermarket: A market for parts and accessories used in the repair or enhancement of a product. A secondary market created after the original
market sales are finished.

After-Sale Service: Services provided to the customer after products have been delivered. This can include repairs, maintenance and/or telephone
support. Synonym: Field Service.

Agglomeration: A net advantage gained by a common location with other companies.

Aggregate Plan: A plan for theproduction process, 2 to 18 months in advance to give management an ideato ofwhat quantity ofmaterials and other
resources are to be procured and when, so that the total cost ofoperations ofthe organization is kept to the minimumover that period.

Aggregate Planning: An operational activity which compiles an aggregate plan for the production process.

Algorithm: A clearly specified mathematical process for computation; a set ofrules, which, iffollowed, give a prescribed result.

American National Standards Institute (ANSI): A non-profit organization chartered to develop, maintain, and promulgate voluntary U.S. national
standards in a number of areas, especially with regards to setting EDI standards. ANSI is the U.S. representative to the International Standards
Organization (ISO).

Andon: A manufacturing term referring to a signboard incorporating signal lights, audio alarms, and text or other displays installed at a workstation
to notify management and other workers ofa quality or process problem.

ANSI ASC X12: American National Standards Institute Accredited Standards Committee X12. The committee of ANSI that is charted with setting
EDI standards.

Applicability Statement 2 (AS2): A specification for Electronic Data Interchange between businesses using the Internet's Web pageprotocol, the
Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP). The specification is an extension ofthe earlier version, Applicability Statement 1 (AS1). Both specifications
were created by EDI over the Internet (EDIINT), a working group ofthe Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF) that develops secure and reliable
business communications standards.

Application Service Provider (ASP): A COMPANY THAT OFFERS ACCESS OVER THE INTERNET TO APPLICATION(examples of applications include word
processors, database programs, Web browsers, development tools, communication programs) AND RELATED SERVICES THAT WOULD OTHERWISE HAVE TO BE LOCATED 
IN THEIR OWN COMPUTERS. Sometimes referred to as “apps-on-tap", ASP services are expected to become an important alternative, especially for
smaller companies with low budgets for information technology. The purpose is to try to reduce a company's burden by installing, managing, and
maintaining software.

Application-to-Application: Thedirect interchangeofdata between computers, without re-keying.

Approved Vendor List (AVL): List of the suppliers approved for doing business. The AVL is usually created by procurement or sourcing and
engineering personnel using a variety of criteria such as technology, functional fit of the product, financial stability, and past performance of the
supplier.

Arrow Diagram: A planning tool to diagram a sequence of events or activities (nodes) and the interconnectivity of such nodes. It is used for
scheduling and especially for determining the critical path through nodes.

ASCII: See:American Standard Code for Information Interchange

Asynchronous Process: A situation where two related processes are started and run concurrently without waiting for the other to complete.

Attributes: A label used to provide additional classification or information about a resource, activity, or cost object. Used for focusing attention and
may be subjective. Examples are a characteristic, a score or grade ofproduct or activity, or groupings oftheseitems, and performance measures.

Authentication: 1) The process of verifying the eligibility of a device, originator, or individual to access specific categories of information or to
enter specific areas of a facility. This process involves matching machine-readable code with a predetermined list of authorized end users. 2) A
practice of establishing the validity of a transmission, message, device, or originator, which was designed to provide protection against fraudulent
transmissions.

Authentication Key: A short string ofcharacters used to authenticate transactions between trading partners.

Autodiscrimination: The functionality of a bar code reader to recognize the bar code symbology being scanned thus allowing a reader to read
several different symbologies consecutively

AutoID: An automated identification system. This includes technology such as bar coding and radio frequency tagging (RFID).

Automated Call Distribution (ACD): A feature of large call center or “Customer Interaction Center” telephone switches that routes calls by rules
such as next available employee, skill-set etc.

AVL: See: Approved Vendor List.

Award Fee: based on subjective assessment by Government on how well contractor meets/exceeds performance standards.

B2B:See: Business to Business

B2C: See:Business to Consumer

Bar Code: A symbol consisting ofa series ofprinted bars representing values. A systemof optical character reading, scanning, and tracking ofunits
by reading a series of printed bars for translation into a numeric or alphanumeric identification code. A popular example is the UPC code used on
retail packaging.

Bar code scanner: A device to read bar codes and communicate datato computer systems.

Baud: A computer term describing the rate of transmission over a channel or circuit. The baud rate is equal to the number of pulses that can be
transmitted in one second, often the same as the number of bits per second. Common rates are now 1200, 2400, 4800, 9600 bits and 19.2 and 56
kilobytes (Kbs) for“dial-up” circuits, and may be much higher for broadband circuits.

Benchmark: A measured, "best in class" achievement; a reference or measurement standard for comparison; this performance level is recognized as
the standard ofexcellence for a specific business process. Any metric which is being used to compare actual performance against.

Benchmarking: The process of comparing performance against the practices of other leading companies for the purpose of improving performance.
Companies also benchmark internally by tracking and comparing current performance with past performance. Benchmarking seeks to improve any
given business process by exploiting "best practices" rather than merely measuring the best performance. Best practices are the cause of best
performance. Studying best practices provides the greatest opportunity for gaining a strategic, operational, and financial advantage.

Bespoke: An individual or custom-made product or service. Traditionally applied to custom-tailored clothing, the term has been extended to
information technology, especially for custom-designed software as an alternative to commercial (COTS) software

Best Practice: A specific process or group ofprocesses which havebeen recognized as the best method for conducting an action. Best Practices may
vary by industry or geography depending on the environment being used. Best practices methodology may be applied with respect to resources,
activities, cost object, orprocesses.

Beta Release:A pre-released version ofa product that is sent to customers for evaluation and feedback.

Bilateral Contract: An agreement in which each ofthe parties to the contract makes a promise or promises to the other party.

Bill of Activities: A listing of activities required by a product, service, process output or other cost object. Bill of activity attributes could include
volume and or cost ofeach activity in the listing.

Bill of Material (BOM): A structured list ofall the materials or parts and quantities needed to produce a particular finished product, assembly,
subassembly, or manufactured part, whether purchased or not.

Bill of Material Accuracy: Conformity of the list of specified items contained in a Bill of Material to administrative specifications, with all
quantities correct

Bill of Resources: A listing ofresources required by an activity. Resource attributes could include cost and volumes.

Binary: A computer termreferring to a systemofnumerical notation that assumes only two possible states or values, zero (0) and one (1). Computer
systems use a binary technique where an individual bit or “Binary Digit” of data can be “on” or “off” (1 or 0). Multiple bits are combined into a
“Byte” which represents a character or number.

Bisynchronous: A computer term referring to a communication protocol whereby messages are sent as blocks of characters. The blocks ofdata are
checked for completeness and accuracy by the receiving computer.

Bitmap Image (BMP): The standard image format on Windows-compatible computers. Bitmap images can be saved for Windows or OS/2 systems
and support 24-bit color.

Bleeding Edge: An unproven process ortechnology so far ahead ofits time that it may create a competitive disadvantage.

Block Diagram: A diagram of a system, in which the principal parts or functions are represented by blocks connected by lines that show the
relationships of the blocks. The block diagram is typically used for a higher level, less detailed description aimed more at understanding the overall
concepts and less at understanding thedetails ofimplementation.

Blocking Bug: A defect that prevents further or more detailed analysis or verification ofa functional area or feature, or any issue that would prevent
the product fromshipping.

Body of Knowledge (BOK): The prescribed aggregation of knowledge in a particular area an individual is expected to have mastered to be
considered or certified as a practitioner.

BOK: See:Body of Knowledge

BOM: See: Bill of Materials

Bottleneck: A constraint, obstacle or planned control that limits throughput orthe utilization ofcapacity.

BMP: See: Bitmap Imagine

Bracketed Recall: A method of performing product recalls where a range of known lot numbers is expanded on the front and back end in order to
capture any risk.

Broadband: A high-speed, high-capacity transmission channel. Broadband channels are carried on radio wave, coaxial or fiber-optic cables that
have a wider bandwidth than conventional telephone lines, giving themthe ability to carry video, voice, and data simultaneously.

Brokered Systems: Independent computer systems, owned by independent organizations or entities, linked in a manner to allow one system to
retrieve information fromanother. For example, a customer's computer systemis able to retrieve order status froma supplier's computer.

Browser: A utility that allows an internet user to look through collections of things. For example, Netscape Navigator and Microsoft Explorer allow
you to view contents on the World Wide Web.

Bucketed System: A technique used in requirements planning where available resources are represented in buckets – typically weekly or monthly
periods – showing a beginning balance, anticipated supply and demand for the period and the calculated forecast availability.

Bucketless System: A technique used in requirements planning where available resources are calculated on demand using a beginning balance and
known or planned supply and demand for the period.

Business Activity Monitoring (BAM): A term which refers to capturing operational data in real-time or close to it, making it possible for an
enterprise to react more quickly to events. This is typically done through software and includes features to provide alerts / notifications when specific
events occur. See also:Supply Chain Event Management

Business Application: Any computer program, set ofprograms, or package ofprograms created to solve a particular business problemor function.

Business Continuity Plan (BCP): A defined operational plan which is designed to be implemented in the event of disruption of normal operations.
Disruptions may be the result of natural disasters, civil or labor unrest, etc. CSCMP provides suggestions for helping companies do continuity
planning in their Securing the Supply Chain Research. A copy ofthe research is availableon the CSCMP website.

Business Intelligence (BI): The set of skills, technologies, applications and practices used to help a business acquire a better understanding of its
commercial context to make better business decisions.

Business Logistics: The systematic and coordinated set ofactivities required to provide the physical movement and storage ofgoods (raw materials,
parts, finished goods) from vendor/supply services through company facilities to the customer (market) and the associated activities—packaging,
order processing, etc.—in an efficient manner necessary to enable theorganization to contribute to the explicit goals ofthe company.

Business Process Outsourcing (BPO): The practice ofoutsourcing non-core internal functions to third parties. Functions typically outsourced
include logistics, accounts payable, accounts receivable, payroll and human resources. Other areas can include IT development or complete
management ofthe IT functions ofthe enterprise.

CAE: See: Computer Aided Engineering

Cage: (1) A secure enclosed area for storing highly valuable items, (2) a pallet-sized platformwith sides that can be secured to the tines ofa forklift
and in which a person may ride to inventory items stored will above the warehouse floor.

CAGE Code: The Commercial and Government Entity code is a 5 character (number and letters) code used to identify contractors doing business
with the U.S. Government.

Caged: Referring to thepractice ofplacing high-valueor sensitive products in a fenced offarea within a warehouse.

Call Center: A call center is a centralized office used for the purpose of receiving and transmitting a large volume of requests by telephone. A call
centre is operated by a company to administer incoming product support or information inquiries from consumers. Outgoing calls for telemarketing,
clientele, product services, and debt collection are also made. In addition to a call centre, collective handling ofletters, faxes, live chat, and e-mails at
one location is known as a contact center. Synonym: Customer Interaction Center.

Call Volume: The number oftelephone calls made or received over a specific period oftime.

Call-Off Orders:A strategy to delay delivery ofitems that are not needed immediately. Instead, you “call off” the items fro mthe purchase order you
want as you need them. See: Blanket Purchase Order

Can-Order Point: A supplier ordering method where multiple items from the same vendor are considered / reviewed if any one item from that
vendor falls below a specific order point (eitherset or calculated). Once an itemtriggers an order, any otheritems which are near theirorderpoint are
also considered. This is done to prevent multiple orders for a single vendor in a short time frame, allowing for possible price breaks and shipping
discounts.

Capability Maturity Model (CMM): A framework that describes the key elements ofan effective software process. It's an evolutionary
improvement path froman immature process to a mature, disciplined process. THE CMM COVERS PRACTICES FOR PLANNING,ENGINEERING AND MANAGING SOFTWARE 
DEVELOPMENT AND MAINTENANCE. When followed, these key practices improvethe ability oforganizations to meet goals for cost, schedule, functionality 
and product quality.

Capacity: The physical facilities, PERSONNEL and process available to meet the product or service needs ofcustomers. Capacity generally refers to the
maxi mum output or producing ability ofa machine, a person, a process, a factory, a product, or a service. Also See: Capacity Management

Capacity Management: The concept that capacity should be understood, defined, and measured for each level in the organization to include market
segments, products, processes, activities, and resources. In each of these applications, capacity is defined in a hierarchy of idle, non-productive, and
productive views.

Capacity Planning: Assuring that needed resources (e.g., manufacturing capacity, distribution center capacity, transportation vehicles, etc.) will be
available at the right time and place to meet logistics and supply chain needs.

CAR: See: Corrective Action

Center-of-Gravity Approach: A supply chain planning methodology for locating distribution centers at approximately the location representing the
minimumtransportation costs between the plants, the distribution centers, and the markets.

Challenge and Response: A method of user authentication. The user enters an ID and password and, in return, is issued a challenge by the system.
The system compares the user's response to the challenge to a computed response. If the responses match, the user is allowed access to the system.
The systemissues a different challenge each time. In effect, it requires a new password for each logon.

Champion: A business leader or senior manager who ensures that resources are available for training and projects, and who is involved in project
tollgate reviews; also an executive who supports and addresses Six Sigma organizational issues.

ChangeAgent: An individual from within oroutside an organization who facilitates changewithin the organization. May or may not be the initiator
ofthe change effort.

Change Management: The process of managing and monitoring all changes to products and processes. Change management is typically instituted to
avoid risks associated with ad-hoc change, and to ensure a consistent process.

Change Order:A document or digital record which authorizes and provides notification ofa modification to a product or order.

Changeover: Process of making necessary adjustments to change or switchover the type of products produced on a manufacturing line.
Changeovers usually lead to downtime and for the most part companies try to minimize changeover time to help reduce costs.

Charging Area: A warehouse area where a company maintains battery chargers and extra batteries to support a fleet of electrically powered
materials handling equipment. THE COMPANY MUST MAINTAIN THIS AREA IN ACCORDANCE WITH GOVERNMENT SAFETY REGULATIONS.

Click-and-Mortar: With reference to a traditional brick-and-mortar company that has expanded its presence online. Many brick-and-mortar stores
are now trying to establish an online presence but often have a difficult time doing so for many reasons. Click-and-mortar is "the successful
combination ofonline and real world experience."

Closed-Loop Corrective Action (CLCA): A sophisticated engineering system designed to document, verify and diagnose failures, recommend and
initiate corrective action, provide follow-up and maintain comprehensive statistical records.

Closed-Loop MRP: A production and operations environment which manages materials and production processes through a full closed loop cycle
beginning with planning, proceeding through the execution process, and providing any resulting feedback and corrective actions back to the planning
function to validate and improve future processes.

Cloud Computing: An emerging computing paradigm where data and services reside in massively scalable data centers and can be ubiquitously
accesses from any connected devices over theinternet. Similar to the“on demand” concept ofSaaS or ASP computing services with the exception of
the broad nature ofthe network ofcomputers.

CLS (Contractor Logistics Support): A term in performance based logistics which refers to support in which maintenance operations for a
particular military systemare performed exclusively by contract support personnel.

CMMS: See: Computerized Maintenance Management System

Code: A numeric, or alphanumeric, representation oftext for exchanging commonly used information. For example: commodity codes, carrier codes,

Codifying: The process ofdetailing a new standard.

Commercial Off-the-Shelf (COTS): A computer software industry term which describes software offered for sale by commercial developers. This
includes products fromvendors such as SAP, Oracle, Microsoft, etc., as well as froms maller vendors.

Communication Protocol: The method by which two computers coordinate their communications. BISYNC and MNP are two examples.

Company Culture: A concept which describes the psychology, attitudes, experiences, beliefs and values (personal and cultural values) of an
organization. The values and customs shared by people and groups in an organization which govern how they interact with each other and with
outside organizations.

Competitive Benchmarking: The practice of comparing and rating a company’s products or services against those of competitors. Also See:
Benchmarking

Compliance: Meaning that products, services, processes and/or documents comply with requirements.

Compliance Checking: The function of ELECTRONIC DATA INTERCHANGE(EDI) processing software that ensures that all transmissions contain the
mandatory information demanded by the EDI standard. Compares information sent by an EDI user against EDIstandards and reports any exceptions.
Does not ensure that documents are complete and fully accurate, but does reject transmissions that are missing data elements or that have syntax
errors.

Compliance Monitoring: A check done by the VALUE ADDED NETWORK (VAN)/third party network or the translation software, to ensure the data being
exchanged is in the correct format for the standard being used.

Compliance Program: method by which two or more EDI trading partners periodically report conformity to agreed upon standards of control and
audit. Management produces statements of compliance, which summarize any exceptions and corrective action planned or taken in accordance with
operating rules. Auditors produce an independent and objective statement ofopinion on management statements.

Component: Material that will contribute to a finished product but is not the finished product itself. Examples would include tires for an automobile,
power supply for a personal computer, or a zipper for a ski parka. Note that what is a component to the manufacturer may be considered thefinished
product oftheir supplier.

Computer-Aided Design (CAD)—Computer-based systems for product design that may incorporate analytical and “what if” capabilities to optimize
product designs. Many CAD systems capture geometric and other product characteristics for engineering-data-management systems, producibility
and cost analysis, and performance analysis. In many cases, CAD-generated data

Computer Aided Engineering (CAE): The useofcomputers to model design options to stimulate their performance.

Computer-Aided Manufacturing (CAM): Computerized systems in which manufacturing instructions are downloaded to automated equipment or
to operator workstations.

Computer-Based Training (CBT): Training that is delivered via computer workstation and includes all training and testing materials.

Computerized Maintenance Management Systems (CMMS): Software-based systems that analyze operating conditions ofproduction equipment -
- vibration, oil analysis, heat, etc. -- and equipment-failure data, and apply that data to the scheduling of maintenance and repair inventory orders and
routine maintenance functions. A CMMS prevents unscheduled machine downtime and optimizes a plant's ability to process product at optimum
volumes and quality levels.

Computerized Process Simulation: Use ofcomputer simulation to facilitatesequencing ofproduction operations, analysis ofproduction flows, and
layout ofmanufacturing facilities.

Concurrent Engineering: A cross-functional, team-based approach in which the product and the manufacturing process are designed and configured
within the same time frame, rather than sequentially. Ease and cost of manufacturability, as well as customer needs, quality issues, and product-lifecycle costs are taken into account earlier in the development cycle. Fully configured concurrent engineering teams include representation from
marketing, design engineering, manufacturing engineering, and purchasing, as well as supplier––and even customer––companies.

Configuration Excellence: Focuses on establishing and maintaining consistency ofa product orservice’s performance. It also looks at the functional
and physical attributes ofa product with its requirements, design, and operational information throughout the product’s life.

Confirmation: With regards to EDI, a formal notice (by messageor code) froma electronic mailbox systemor EDI server indicating that a message
sent to a trading partner has reached its intended mailbox or been retrieved by the addressee.

CONOPS: Concept ofOperations. There are various uses and users for CONOPS. The primary purposeofthe CONOPS is to provide a vision for
an initiativeor desired capability. In general, the CONOPS provides guidance to those users requiring direction and/or information on developing
their own documents, schedules, milestones, and plans.

Constraint: A bottleneck, obstacle orplanned control that limits throughput or the utilization ofcapacity.

Contactless: Refers to the practice ofusing RFID, Smart Card or other forms of Near Field Communications technology to gather data electronically
without theneed to actually make contact physically with theitem..

Contingency Planning: Preparing to deal with risks such as environmental emergencies (e.g., floods) and non-emergency but still disruptive
situations (e.g., strikes)before they occur.

Continuous Replenishment Planning (CRP): A program that triggers the manufacturing and movement of product through the supply chain when
the identical product is purchased by an end user.

Contract: A legally binding agreement between two or more parties to provide specific products or services.

Contractor Performance Assessment Report: CPAR

Contribution: The difference between sales revenue and variable costs. Contribution is not the same as profit since it only considers the variable
costs, it is the amount applied to fixed costs and resulting in profits.

Cookie: A computer term. A piece of information from your computer that references what the user has clicked on, or references information that is
stored in a text file on the user's hard drive (such as a username). Another way to describe cookies is to say they are tiny files containing information
about individual computers that can be used by advertisers to track online interests and tastes. Cookies are also used in the process of purchasing
items on the Web. It is because of the cookie that the "shopping cart" technology works. By saving in a text file, the name, and other important
information about an itema user "clicks" on as they move through a shopping Website, a user can later go to an order form, and see all the items they
selected, ready for quick and easy processing.

Core Competency: A specific factor that a business sees as being central to theway it, or its employees, works. It fulfills threekey criteria:
1. It provides consumer benefits
2. It is not easy for competitors to imitate
3. It can be leveraged widely to many products and markets.

Corrective Action: A change implemented to address a weakness identified in a management system, usually brought to the company’s attention by
a customer complaint ofnonconformities identified during an internal audit or adverse or unstable trends in product and process monitoring identified
by the statistical process control (SPC).

Corrective ActionReporting System:See: Corrective Action

CountBack: A process in which order pickers selecting full cases from pallet rack locations performan immediate cycle count at the completion of
the pick for that location, using a RADIO FREQUENCY OR VOICE TERMINAL. The use ofthe count-back programis just one component ofbeing ableto prove
perfect order picking and the highest degree ofinventory accuracy

Cross-Shipment: A term used widely in the electronics industry when shipment of a replacement part or device is made in advance of physical
return ofthe defectivepart.

Critical Success Factor (CSF): Those activities and/or processes that must be completed and/or controlled to enable a company to reach its goals.

CSCMP: See: Council of SupplyChainManagement Professionals.

CSF: See: Critical Success Factor

CSI: See: Container Security Initiative

Cumulative Source/Make Cycle Time: The cumulative internal and external lead time to manufacture shippable product, assuming that there is no
inventory on-hand, no materials orparts on order, and no prior forecasts existing with suppliers. (An element ofTotal Supply Chain ResponseTime)
	Calculation: The critical path along the following elements: Total Sourcing Lead Time, Manufacturing Order Release to Start Manufacturing,
	Total Manufacture Cycle Time (Make-to-Order, ENGINEER-TO-ORDER, Configure/Package-to-Order) or Manufacture Cycle Time (Make-to-Stock),
	Complete Manufacture to Ship Time

Customer Interaction Center: See: Call Center

Customer Operations Performance Center (COPC): Call center consulting, certification, trainingandbenchmarking company

Customer Relationship Management (CRM): This refers to information systems that help sales and marketing functions, as opposed to the
ENTERPRISE RESOURCE PLANNING (ERP), WHICH IS FOR BACK-END INTEGRATION.

Customer Service Representative (CSR): An individual who provides customer support via telephone in a call center environment.

Data Cleansing: The process ofdetecting and cleaning inaccurate, incomplete, incorrect, and irrelevant records in a dataset. The records are deleted,
modified or replaced as needed.

Data Dictionary: Lists the data elements for which standards exist. The Joint Electronic Document Interchange (JEDI) committee developed a data
dictionary that is employed by many EDI users.

Data Field Formatting: The parameters placed on a column within a database or data entry formon a website. An example ofa parameter would be
the 8 character limitation for any text entered into a particular data field.

Data Integration: The process ofintegrating data residing in different sources, and creating a unified view ofthe data for users.

Data Integrity: Assurance that the data is “whole” or complete. The data integrity perseveres during retrieval, storage, and transfer. In database
management, it refers to theprocess ofensuring the data accurately reflects the environment it is modeling or representing.
Data Interchange Standards Association (DISA): The secretariat, which provides clerical and administrative support to theASC X12 Committee.

Data Mining: The process of extracting and analyzing data, typically from a computer database, to gather knowledge about hidden patterns or
unknown relationships in order to achieve specific business objectives.

Data Pool: A repository of Data within the Global Data Synchronisation Network where trading partners can obtain, maintain and exchange
information on items and parties in a standard format through electronic means.

Data Steward: The person responsible for maintaining consistency and preciseofdata during exchanges between computersystems.

Data Warehouse: A storage architecture designed to hold data extracted from transaction systems, operational data stores and external sources. A
repository of an organization’s electronically stored data designed in such a way as to facilitate reporting and analysis, the warehouse combines data
in an aggregate, summary formsuitable for enterprise-wide data analysis and reporting for predefined business needs.

Database: Data stored in computer-readable form, usually indexed or sorted in a logical order by which users can find a particular item of data they
need.

Dead on Arrival (DOA): A termused to describe products which are not functional when delivered. Synonym: Defective.

Decision Support System (DSS): Software that speeds access and simplifies data analysis, queries, etc. within a database management system.

Delimiters: 1) ASCII, characters which are used to separate data elements within a data stream. 2) EDI, two levels ofseparators and a terminator that
are integrals part of a transferred data stream. Delimiters are specified in the interchange header. From highest to lowest level, the separators and
terminator are segment terminator, data element separator, and component element separator (used only in EDIFACT).

Demand-Driven Supply Network (DDSN): A system of technologies and processes that sense and react to real-time demand across a network of
customers, suppliers and employees. In other words, a consumer purchase triggers real-time information movement throughout the supply network,
which then initiates movement ofproduct through thenetwork.

Denied Party List (DPL): A listing ofall the entities with whoma company cannot do business due to company policy or government requirements.
The Export DPL list is based on information supplied by the United States Government Federal Register and othersources.

Dial Up: Access a network by dialing a phone number or initiating a computer to dial the number. The dial-up line connects to the network access
point via a nodeor a PAD.

Digital Signature: Electronically generated, digitized (as opposed to graphically created) authorization that is uniquely linkable and traceable to an
empowered officer.

Direct Transmission: A transmission whereby data is exchanged directly between sender and receiver computers, without an intervening third-party
service. Also called a POINT-TO-POINT TRANSMISSION.

DISA: See: Data Interchange Standards Association.
Disaster Recovery Planning: Contingency planning specifically related to recovering hardware and software (e.g. data centers, application software,
operations, personnel, and telecommunications) during information systemoutages.

DMZSeparation: Demilitarized zones (DMZ) act as buffers between a trusted network (Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition or
SCADA network) and the corporate network or Internet—separated through additional firewalls and routers—which provide an extra layer of
security against cyber attacks. Utilizing DMZ buffers is becoming an increasingly common method to segregatebusiness applications from
the SCADA network and is a highly recommended additional security measure. A DMZ is sometimes called a“Perimeter network” or a
“Three-homed perimeter network.” SI Security, a leading intelligence security company, defines a DMZ as: “ anetwork added between a
protected network and an external network in orderto provide an additional layer ofsecurity.”

Domain: A computer term for the following: 1) Highest subdivision of the Internet, for the most part by country (except in the U.S., where it's by
type of organization, such as educational, commercial, and government). Usually the last part of a host name; for example, the domain part of
ibm.com is .com, which represents the domain of commercial sites in the U.S. 2) In corporate data networks, a group of client computers controlled
by a server system

Download: To merge temporary files containing a day’s or week’s worth ofinformation with the main data basein order to updateit.

DRP: See: Distribution Requirements Planning

Dunnage: The materials used in packaging, holds and containers to protect goods fromdamage.

Dwell Time: The period oftime during which a dynamic process is halted in order for another process to occur.

ECP: See: Engineering ChangeProposal
ECR: See:Efficient Consumer Response
EDI: See: Electronic Data Interchange
EDIA: See: Electronic Data Interchange Association
EDIFACT: An abbreviation ofthe Electronic Data Interchange for Administration, Commerce, and Transport. The United Nations EDI standard.

Electronic Data Interchange (EDI): Inter-company, computer-to-computer transmission of business information in a standard format. For EDI
purists, "computer-to-computer" means direct transmission from the originating application program to the receiving, or processing, application
program. An EDI transmission consists only ofbusiness data, not any accompanying verbiage or free-form messages.Purists might also contend that
a standard format is one that is approved by a national or international standards organization, as opposed to formats developed by industry groups or
companies.

Electronic Mail (E-Mail): The computer-to-computer exchange of messages. E-mail is usually unstructured (free-form) rather than in a structured
format. X.400 HAS BECOME THE STANDARD FOR E-MAIL EXCHANGE.

Electronic Product Code (EPC or ePC): An identification scheme for universally identifying physical objects via RFID tags and other means.
Standardized EPCdata consists ofamong other partitions ofdata, an EPC Manager Number, an object class identification, a filter value, and a serial
number used to uniquely identify theinstance ofthe object. Information on thetag may include asset numbers, container codenumbers, locations,
Global Trade ItemNumbers (GTIN), etc. The EPCis a 96-bit tag which unlike a UPC number which only provides information specific to agroup of
products, gives each product its own specific identifying number, providing greater accuracy in tracking. EPC standards are managed by the global
standards organization known as GS1.

Electronic Signature: A form of authentication that provides identification and validation of a transaction by means of an authorization code
identifying theindividual or organization

Encryption: The transformation ofreadable text into coded text for security purposes.

End-of-Life: Planning and execution at the end of the life of a product. The challenge is making just the right amount to avoid: 1) ending up with
excess, which has to be sold at great discounts or scrapped, or2) ending up with shortages before the next generation is available.

End-of-Life Inventory: Inventory on hand that will satisfy future demand for products that are no longer in production at your entity. This differs
from obsoleteinventory because there is an expected future requirement for theseproducts.

Engineering Change: The formal revision process for engineering drawings/designs in order to modify or correct a part. This can also be called an
engineering change order.

Engineering Change Order (ECO):A documented and approved revision to a product or process specification.

Engineer-to-Order: A process in which the manufacturing organization must first prepare (engineer) significant product or process documentation
before manufacture may begin.

Enterprise Application Integration (EAI): A computer termfor the tools and techniques used in linking ERP and other enterprise systems together.
Linking systems is key for e-business. Gartner say 'firms implementing enterprise applications spend at least 30% on POINT-TO-POINT INTERFACES'. 
ALSO SOMETIMES REFERRED TO AS “ MIDDLEWARE.

Enveloping: An EDI management software function that groups all documents of the same type, or functional group, and bound for the same
destination into an electronic envelope. Enveloping is useful where there are multiple documents such as orders or invoices issued to a single trading
partner that need to be sent as a packet.

EOL: See: End-of-Life.

EPC or ePC: See: ElectronicProduct Code.

EPM: See: Employee Performance Management

EPS: A computer term. Encapsulated Postscript. An extension of the PostScript graphics file format developed by Adobe Systems. EPS lets
PostScript graphics files be incorporated into other documents.

Ethernet: A computer term for the most commonly used type of local area network (LAN) communication protocol using coaxial or twisted pair
wiring.

Extensible Markup Language (XML): A computer term referring to a general-purpose specification for creating custom markup languages which
specifies lexical grammar and parsing requirements. The termextensible is used to indicate that a markup-language designer has significant freedom
in the choice ofmarkup elements.

Extranet: A computer term describing a private network (or a secured link on the public internet) that links separate organizations and that uses the
same software and protocols as the Internet. Used for improving supply chain management. For example, extranets are used to provide access to a
supply chain partner’s internal inventory datawhich is not availableto unrelated parties. Antonym: Intranet.

File Transfer Protocol (FTP): The Internet service that transfers files from one computer to another, over standard phone lines.

FTP: See: File Transfer Protocol

Functional Acknowledgment (FA): A specific EDI Transaction Set (997) sent by the recipient ofan EDI message to confirmthe receipt ofdata but
with no indication as to the recipient application’s response to the message. The FA will confirm that the message contained the correct number of
lines, etc. via control summaries, but does not report on the validity ofthe data.

Game Theory: A branch of applied mathematics that is used in the social sciences, most notably in economics, as well as in biology, engineering,
political science, international relations, computer science, and philosophy. Game theory attempts to mathematically capture behavior in strategic
situations, in which an individual's success in making choices depends on the choices ofothers, a sort of“ Win-Win” stragegy.

Gateway: The connection that permits messages to flow freely between two networks.

Graphics Interchange Format (GIF): A graphical file format commonly used to display indexed-color images on the World Wide Web. GIF IS A
COMPRESSED FORMAT,DESIGNED TO MINIMIZE FILE TRANSFER TIME OVER STANDARD PHONE LINES.

Green Field:A method used to launch anew process orinitiativewhereno others ofthat typehavepreviously existed.

HA: See: High Availability Clusters

Hedge Inventory: Excess inventories held to provide a buffer against risks associated with some contingent event.
Events include price increases and availability reductions associated with work stoppages, plant shutdowns, disasters or acts ofterrorism.

High Availability Clusters (HA): A group oflinked computers, connected through a fast local area network, that are implemented primarily for the
purpose ofproviding high availability ofservices

Home Page: The starting point for a website. It is the page that is retrieved and displayed by default when a user visits the website. The default
home-page name for a server depends on the server's configuration. ON MANY WEB SERVERS, IT IS index.html OR default.htm. Some web servers support
multiple home pages.

HTML: See: HyperText Markup Language

HTTP: See: HyperText Transport Protocol

Hub: 1) A large retailer or manufacturer having many trading partners. 2) A reference for a transportation network as in “hub and spoke” which is
common in the airline and trucking industry. For example, a hub airport serves as the focal point for the origin and termination of long-distance
flights where flights fromoutlying areas are fed into the hub airport for connecting flights. 3) A common connection point for devices in a network.
4) A Web "hub" is one ofthe initial names for what is now known as a "portal". It came fro mthe creative idea ofproducing a website, which would
contain many different "portal spots" (small boxes that looked like ads, with links to different yet related content). This content, combined with
Internet technology, made this idea a milestone in the development and appearance of websites, primarily due to the ability to display a lot of useful
content and store one's preferred information on a secured server. THE WEB TERM "hub" WAS REPLACED WITH PORTAL.

Hyperlink: A computer term. Also referred to as “link”. The text you find on a website which can be "clicked on" with a mouse which, in turn, will
take you to another web pageor a different area ofthe same web page. Hyperlinks are created or "coded" in HTML

HyperText Markup Language (HTML): The standard language for describing the contents and appearance ofpages on the World Wide Web.

HyperText Transport Protocol (HTTP): The Internet protocol that allows World Wide Web browsers to retrieve information fromservers.

Impressions: With regard to online advertising, it is the number of times an ad banner is downloaded and presumably seen by users. Guaranteed
impressions refer to the minimumnumber of times an ad banner will be seen by users.

Intellectual Property (IP): Property of an enterprise or individual which is typically maintained in a digital form. This may include software
programcode or digital documents, music, videos, etc.

Interleaving: The practice of assigning an employee multiple tasks which are to be performed concurrently. This technique is frequently used to
define thepractice ofassigning multiplepicking orders to a single pickerwho will pick themconcurrently as he/she moves down the aisle.

Internet: A computer term which refers to an interconnected group of computer networks from all parts of the world, i.e. a network of networks.
Accessed via a modem and an on-line service provider, it contains a number of information resources and acts as a giant electronic message routing
system.

Java: A computer term for a general-purpose programming language created by Sun Microsystems. Java can be used to create Java applets. A Java
programis downloaded fromthe web server and interpreted by a programrunning on the computer running theWeb browser.

Java Applet: A computer term for a short program written in Java that is attached to a web page and executed by the computer on which the Web
browser is installed.

Java Script: A computer term for a cross-platform, World Wide Web scripting language developed by Netscape Communications. JavaScript code
is inserted directly into an HTML page.

LAN: See: Local Area Network

Legacy: A computer term that describes an old computer system or application program that continues to be used because it still meets the user’s
needs.

Leverage: Taking something small and exploding it. Can be financial ortechnological.

Link: The transportation method used to connect thenodes (plants, warehouses) in a logistics system.

Linked Distributed Systems: Independent computer systems, owned by independent organizations, linked in a manner to allow direct updates to be
made to one system by another. For example, a customer's computer system is linked to a supplier's system, and the customer can create orders or
releases directly in thesupplier's system.

LMS: See: Labor Management System

Lockbox: A method for receiving payments where customers make their remittance directly to a bank or other financial institution ratherthan to the
invoicing company. The bank then applies the funds received directly to the company’s account, and provides the company with a listing (printed or
electronic) ofall thepayments received.

Logistics Data Interchange (LDI): A computerized systemto electronically transmit logistics information.

Mainframe: A term sometimes generically used to refer to an organization’s central computer system. SPECIFICALLY THE LARGEST CLASS OF COMPUTER
SYSTEMS MANUFACTURED.

Mail Shop An service provider which specializes in preparing materials for mailing by affixing labels, sorting for bulk rates, preparing bag tags,
bagging, etc..

Mean TimeBetween Failures (MTBF): The average time between failures in a system

Measurement Plans: A tool through which can evaluatethe success ofa programon an ongoing basis.

Message: The EDIFACT term for a transaction set. A message is the collection of data, organized in segments, exchanged by trading partners
engaged in EDI. Typically, a message is an electronic version of a document associated with a common business transaction, such as a purchase
order or shipping notice. A message begins with a message header segment, which identifies the start of the message (e.g., the series of characters
representing one purchase order). The message header segment also carries the message type code, which identifies the business transaction type.
EDIFACT's message header segment is called UNH; in ANSI X12 protocol, the messageheader is called ST. A message ends with a message trailer
segment, which signals the end of the message (e.g., the end of one purchase order). EDIFACT's message trailer is labeled UNT; the ANSI X12
message trailer is referred to as SE.

Meta Tag: An optional HTML tag that is used to specify information about a web document. Some search engines use "spiders" to index web pages.
These spiders read the information contained within a page's META tag. So in theory, an HTML or web page author has the ability to control how
their site is indexed by search engines and how and when it will "come up" on a user's search. The META tag can also be used to specify an HTTP or
URL address for the page to "jump" to after a certain amount of time. This is known as Client-Pull. What this means, is a web page author can
control the amount oftime a web pageis up on thescreen as well as where thebrowser will go next.

Middleware: A type of software that is able to connect disparate software components or applications. Typically used to provided a level of
integration between software components where were acquired fromdifferent developers.

Node: A fixed point in a firm’s logistics systemwhere goods come to rest; includes plants, warehouses, supply sources, and markets.

Obsolete Inventory: Inventory for which there is no forecast demand expected. A condition ofbeing out ofdate. A loss ofvalue occasioned by new
developments that place the older property at a competitive disadvantage.

Obsolescence: A loss in the utility or value of property that results over time from intrinsic limitations (as outmoded facilities) or external
circumstances.

One-Way Networks: The advantages generally live with either the seller or buyer, but not both. B2Cwebsites are one-way networks.

P2P: See: Peer to Peer

Password: A private code required to gain access to a computer, an application program, or service.

Peer to Peer (P2P): A co mputer networking environment which allows individual computers to share resources and data without passing through an
intermediate network server.

Phantom Bill of Material: A BOM for a product or group of parts that is not normally built and stocked, but is immediately used in production.
MRP processors ignore the phantom and instead include the component parts in production orders and for planning purposes. A phantom BOM is
often used for convenience where a set of parts has identical usage across many bills of material. Synonym: Pseudo Bill of Material. Also See:
blowthrough

Plaintext: Databefore it has been encrypted or after it has been decrypted, e.g., an ASCII text file.

Planning Bill of Material: A BOM which has been created facilitate the practiceof forecasting by family group rather than by individual product. It
specifies the products as components and the expected percent of each in terms of overall family usage or sales. The MRP system will then use the
family level forecast to derive individual product forecasts using the relative percentages. Also See: Hedge Inventory, Production Forecast, Pseudo
Bill of Material

Planning Horizon: In an MRP system this is the length of time into the future (number of periods or days) for which the planning system will
generate requirements. The horizon should be set long enough out to accommodate the longest cumulative lead time for any item in the population.
.Also See: Cumulative Lead Time, Planning Time Fence

Planning Time Fence: A point, usually a set length oftime beyond the current date, used as a boundary for making changes in a planning system. It
is used to stabilize the master production schedule by allowing various changes to planned orders only beyond the fence however changes under
certain circumstances can be made within the fence. Also See: Cumulative Lead Time, Demand Time Fence, Firm Planned Order, Planned Order,
Planning Horizon, Time Fence.

Portal: Websites that serve as starting points to otherdestinations or activities on the Internet. Initially thought ofas a "home base" type ofweb page,
portals attempt to provide all Internet needs in one location. Portals commonly provide services such as e-mail, online chat forums, shopping,
searching, content, and news feeds.

Power-By-the-Hour (PBH): Under PBH, an hourly rate is negotiated and the contractor is paid in advance based on the forecasted operational
hours for the system. Actual hours are reconciled with projected hours and overages and shortfalls are either added to or credited from the next
period’s forecasted amounts. Since the contractor receives funding independent offailures he is then incentivized to overhaul the asset the first time it
fails so it stays in operation as long as possible. BOTTOM LINE: UNDDER THE PBH CONCEPT, THE FEWER TIMES THE CONTRACTOR TOUCHES A UNIT, THE MORE MONEY,
HE MAKES.

Proactive: The strategy ofunderstanding issues before they become apparent and presenting the solution as a benefit to the customer, etc.

Protocol: Communication standards that determine message content and format, enabling uniformity oftransmissions.

Pseudo Bill of Materials: See: Phantom Bill of Materials

Rack: A piece ofequipment which is used to store materials off ofthe floor. Racks will typically have shelves, but may be designed to hold materials
vertically such as lengths ofpipe ofmetal bar stock.

Racking: The activity ofplacing materials onto a rack. May also refer to hardware which is used to build racks.

Radio Frequency (RF): A formo fwireless communications that lets users relay information via electromagnetic energy waves froma terminal to a
base station, which is linked in turn to a host computer. The terminals can be place at a fixed station, mounted on a forklift truck, or carried in the
worker's hand. The base station contains a transmitter and receiver for communication with the terminals. RF systems use either narrow-band or
spread-spectrum transmissions. NARROW-BAND DATA TRANSMISSION MOVE ALONG A SINGLE LIMITED RADIO FREQUENCY, WHILE SPREAD-SPECTRUM TRANSMISSIONS
MOVE ACROSS SEVERAL DIFFERENT FREQUENCIES. When combined with a bar-code system for identifying inventory items, a radio-frequency system can
relay data instantly, thus updating inventory records in so-called "real time."

Radio Frequency Identification (RFID): The use of radio frequency technology including RFID tags and tag readers to identify objects. Objects
may include virtually anything physical, such as equipment, pallets of stock, or even individual units of product. RFID TAGS CAN BE ACTIVE OR PASSIVE.
Active tags contain a power source and emit a signal constantly. Passive tags receive power from the radio waves sent by the scanner / reader. The
inherent advantages ofRFID over bar code technology are: 1) THE ABILITY TO BE READ OVER LONGER DISTANCES, 2) THE ELIMINATION OF REQUIREMENT FOR "LINE
OF SIGHT” READABILITY, 3) ADDED CAPACITY TO CONTAIN INFORMATION, and 4) RFID TAG DATA CAN BE UPDATED/CHANGED.

Reliability: The ability of a system to perform as designated in an operational environment over time without failures. A common performance
metric for reliability is Mean Time Between Failures. A carrier selection criterion that considers the variation in carrier transit time; the consistency
ofthe transit time provided

RF: See: Radio Frequency

RF Remote Data Terminals (RDTs): An electronic devicethat is used to enter or retrieve datavia radio frequency transmissions.

RFID: See: Radio Frequency Identification

RFM: See: Recency, Frequency, Monetary

Rich Media: An Internet advertising term for a Web page ad that uses advanced technology such as streaming video, downloaded applet (programs)
that interact instantly with the user, and ads that change when the user's mouse passes overit.

Rich Text Format (RFT): A method of encoding text formatting and document structure using the ASCII character set. By convention, RTF files
have an .rtffilename extension.

SaaS: See:Software as a Service.

Scan: A computer termreferring to the action ofscanning bar codes or RF tags.

Service Level Agreement (SLA): may be used in lieu of a contract to represent and document the terms of the performance based agreement for
organic support

Skills Matrix: A visible means of displaying people’s skill levels in various tasks. Used in a team environment to identify the skills required by the
team and which teammembers have those skills.

Social Networking: Refers to systems that allow members of a specific site to learn about other members' skills, talents, knowledge, or preferences.
Commercial examples include Facebook and LinkedIn. Some companies use these systems internally to help identify experts.

Software as Services (SaaS): A termwhich describes the use ofcomputer systems provided by a remote third party, similar to what has traditionally
been called a“Service Bureau” or“Application ServiceProvider (ASP)”. In this setting the service provider maintains all of the computer hardware
and software at their location, while the user accesses the systems via an internet connection and is charged a rate based on access time. It is also
ometimes also referred to as “On Demand” services.

Sole Sourcing:When thereis only one supplier for a product or service, and no alternate suppliers are available.

Spam: A computer industry term referring to the Act of sending identical and irrelevant postings to many different newsgroups or mailing lists.
Usually this posting is something that has nothing to do with the particular topic of a newsgroup or of no real interest to the person on the mailing
list.

Standard Components: Components (parts) ofa product, for which there is an abundance ofsuppliers. Not difficult to produce. An example would
be a power cord for a computer.

Stop Sequence: A load building techniquewhere the first stop is loaded last.

Subcontracting: Sending work outside the enterprise to a third party. This typically involves specialized operations related to production. Also See:
Outsource

Substitutability: The ability ofa buyerto substitutethe products ofdifferent sellers.

Supply Chain-Related IT Costs: Information Technology (IT) costs (in US dollars) associated with major supply-chain management processes as
described below. These costs should include: Development costs (costs incurred in process reengineering, planning, software development,
installation, implementation, and training associated with new and/or UPGRADE ARCHITECTURE, INFRASTRUCTURE, AND SYSTEMS to support the described
supply-chain management processes), Execution costs (operating costs to support supply-chain process users, including COMPUTER AND NETWORK 
OPERATIONS, EDI and telecommunications services, and amortization/depreciation of hardware, Maintenance costs (costs incurred in problem
resolution, troubleshooting, repair, and routine maintenance associated with installed hardware and software for described supply-chain management
processes. Include costs associated with data base administration, systems configuration control, release planning and management.
These costs are associated with the following processes:
PLAN
1. Product Data Management - Product phase-in/phase-out and release; post introduction supportandexpansion; testing and evaluation; endof-life inventory management. Item master definition and control.
2. Forecasting and Demand/Supply Manage and Finished Goods - Forecasting; end-item inventory planning, DRP, production master
scheduling for all products, all channels.
SOURCE
1. Sourcing/Material Acquisition - Material requisitions, purchasing, supplier quality engineering, inbound freight management, receiving,
incoming inspection, component engineering, tooling acquisition, accounts payable.
2. Component and Supplier Management - Part number cross-references, supplier catalogs, approved vendor lists.
3. Inventory Management - Perpetual and physical inventory controls and tools.
MAKE
1. Manufacturing Planning - MRP, production scheduling, tracking, mfg. engineering, mfg. documentation management,
inventory/obsolescence tracking.
2. Inventory Management - Perpetual and physical inventory controls and tools.
3. Manufacturing Execution - MES, detailed and finiteinterval scheduling, process controls and machine scheduling.
DELIVER
1. Order Management - Order entry/ maintenance, quotes, customer database, product/price database, accounts receivable, credits and
collections, invoicing.
2. Distribution and Transportation Management - DRP shipping, freight management, traffic management.
3. Inventory Management - Perpetual and physical inventory controls and tools.
4. Warehouse Management - Finished goods, receiving and stocking, pick/pack.
5. Channel Management - Promotions, pricing and discounting, customer satisfaction surveys.
6. FIELD SERVICE/SUPPORTt - Field service, customer and field support, technical service, service/call management, returns and warranty
tracking

Swimlane:A row on a business process diagramtype called a“ Swimlane Chart” which provides a way ofindicating which department orindividual
is responsible for a given process or activity. The responsible area or party is named on the left side ofthe diagramwith processes organized left to
right and lines oflinkage between each lane to show handoffs between areas.

Syntax: The grammar or rules which define the structure ofthe EDI standard

System: A set ofinteracting elements, variables, parts, or objects that are functionally related to each other and forma coherent group.

Task Interleaving: A method ofcombining warehouse picking and putaway. Warehouse Management Systems (WMS) use logic to direct (typically
with an RF terminal) a lift truck operator to put away a pallet en route to the next pick. The idea is to reduce“deadheading” or driving empty material
handling equipment around the warehouse.

Time Bucket: A defined period, typically 7 days, wherein data is summarized for presentation in an MRP system. Data in the bucket is usually
divided into groups showing inventory beginning balance, anticipated supply and demand, and available ending balance.

Transaction: A single completed transmission, e.g., transmission of an invoice over an EDI network. Analogous to usage of the term in data
processing, in which a transaction can be an inquiry or a range of updates and trading transactions. The definition is important for EDI service
operators, who must interpret invoices and other documents.

Translation Software: Software the converts or "translates" business application data into EDIstandard formats, and viceversa.

Transparency: The ability to gain access to information without regard to the systems landscape or architecture. An example would be where an
online customer could access a vendor’s web site to place an order and receive availability information supplied by a third party outsourced
manufacturer or shipment information froma third party logistics provider. Also see:Visibility

Tribal Knowledge: A person's in-depth knowledge about a specific project or process because he or she has been working on the project or process
since its inception. It can also be any unwritten information that is not commonly known by others in the department, functional area or company.

Uniform Resource Locator (URL): A string that supplies the Internet address of a website or resource on the World Wide Web, along with the
protocol by which the siteor resource is accessed. The most common URL typeis http://, which gives the Internet address ofa web page. Some other
URL TYPES ARE gopher://, WHICH GIVES THE INTERNET ADDRESS OF A Gopher DIRECTORY, AND ftp://, WHICH GIVES THE NETWORK LOCATION OF AN FTP RESOURCE.

Upsell: The practice ofattempting to sell a higher-value product to the customer.

Upstream: Refers to the supply side of the supply chain. Upstream partners are the suppliers who provide goods and services to the organization
needed to satisfy demands which originate at point of demand or use, as well as other flows such as return product movements, payments for
purchases, etc. This is the opposite ofdownstream.

URL: See:Uniform Resource Locator

Value-Added Productivity Per Employee: Contribution made by employees to total product revenue minus the material purchases divided by total
employment. Total employment is total employment for the entity being surveyed. This is the average full-time equivalent employee in all functions,
including sales and marketing, distribution, manufacturing, engineering, customer service, finance, general and administrative, and other. Total
employment should include contract and temporary employees on a full-time equivalent (FTE) basis.

Value Engineering Change Proposal (VECP): A change proposal resulting from an organized effort directed at analyzing the function of
Department of Defense systems, equipment, facilities, procedures, and supplies for the purpose of achieving the required function at the lowest total
cost ofeffective ownership, consistent with requirements for performance, reliability, quality, and maintainability

VECP: See: Value Engineering Change Proposal

Viral Marketing: The concept of embedding advertising into web portals, pop-ups and as e-mail attachments to spread the word about products or
services that the target audience may not otherwisehave been interested in.

Voice of The Customer: A business term to describe the process of capturing a customer's requirements using market research to determine a
customer’s wants and needs. This is then organized into a hierarchical structure and prioritized by importance and satisfaction with current
alternatives.

WAN: See:Wide Area Network

Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment (WEEE): Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment is a loose category ofsurplus, obsolete,broken,
or discarded electrical or electronic devices. The processing ofelectronic waste in developing countries causes serious health and pollution problems
due to lack of containment, as do unprotected landfills (due to leaching) and incineration. The Basel Convention and regulation by the European
Union and individual United States aimto reduce these problems. Reuse and computer recycling are promoted as alternatives to disposal as trash.

Web: A computer termused to describe the global Internet. Synonym: World WideWeb

Web 2.0: These technologies, which rely on user collaboration, include Web services, peer-to-peer networking, blogs, podcasts, and online social
networks

Web Browser:A client application that fetches and displays web pages and other World Wide Web resources to the user.

Web Services: A computerterm for information processing services that are delivered by third parties using internet portals. Standardized
technology communications protocols; network services as collections ofcommunication formats or endpoints capable ofexchanging messages.

Web Site: A location on the Internet.

WEEE: See:W aste Electrical and Electronic Equipment

Wide Area Network (WAN): A computer network that covers a broad area (i.e., any network whose communications links cross metropolitan,
regional, or national boundaries. The largest and most well-known example ofa WAN is the Internet.

Wikis:Web based services such as those found in Wikipedia. Wikis are systems for collaborative publishing which allow many authors to contribute
to an online document or discussion.

World Wide Web (WWW): A "multimedia hyper linked database that spans the globe" and lets you browse through lots ofinteresting information.
Unlike earlier Internet services, the 'Web' combines text, pictures, sounds, and even animations, and it lets you move around with a click of your
computer mouse.

X12: The ANSI standard for inter-industry electronic interchangeofbusiness transactions.

XML: See: Extensible Markup Language









