

Networking Terms 2


anycast address
An IPv6 address that is assigned to a group of interfaces, usually belonging to different nodes.
A packet that is sent to an anycast address is routed to the nearest interface having that address.
The packet's route is in compliance with the routing protocol's measure of distance.

anycast group 
A group of interfaces with the same anycast IPv6 address. The Oracle Solaris implementation
of IPv6 does not support the creation of anycast addresses and groups. However, Oracle Solaris
IPv6 nodes can send traffic to anycast groups.

asymmetric
routing
Occurs when a packet travels from a source to a destination in a path but takes a different path
while returning to the source. Commonly seen in the Layer-3 (network layer) routed networks.

asynchronous PPP
A form of PPP over asynchronous serial lines, which transfer data one character at a time.
The most common form of PPP configuration, the dial-up link, uses asynchronous PPP
communications.

autonegotiation 
An Ethernet procedure in which two connected devices share their capabilities regarding
transmission parameters, such as speed, duplex mode, and flow control. The connected devices
use the highest performance transmission mode that they support.

backup router 
A VRRP instance for a VRID that is active but not in the master state is called a backup router.
Any number of backup routers can exist for a VRID. A backup router assumes the role of a
master router if the current master router fails. See also VRRP and VRID.

bandwidth control
Enables you to control the available bandwidth of a physical NIC on a per-application, perport,
per-protocol, and per-address basis.

bandwidth
delay product
Determines the amount of data sent through the network. This data is the product of the
available network bandwidth and the connection latency or round-trip time.

bandwidth share
The minimum share of the bandwidth that the VNIC will get when there is competition from
other VNICs on the same datalink.

Blowfish 
A symmetric block cipher algorithm that takes a variable-length key from 32 bits to 448 bits.
Its author, Bruce Schneier, claims that Blowfish is optimized for applications where the key
does not change often.

BOOTP (Internet Bootstrap Protocol) 
A protocol that is used by a network client to obtain an IP address
from a server.

CHAP (Challenge Handshake Authentication Protocol) 
An authentication protocol that can be used to verify the identity of a caller on a PPP link. CHAP 
authentication uses the notion of challenge and response, where the system that receives a call 
challenges the caller to prove its identity. See also password authentication protocol.

CHAP secret 
An ASCII or binary string that is used for identification purposes and is known to both peers on
a PPP link.

chat script 
Instructions that tell a modem how to establish a communications link between itself and a
remote peer. Both the PPP and UUCP protocols use chat scripts for establishing dial-up links
and dial-back calling.

community VLAN
A type of secondary VLAN. The ports associated with community VLANs can communicate
with the primary VLAN and the other ports that are in the same community VLAN. Multiple
community VLANs can be created within a primary VLAN domain.

CRL (certificate revocation list) 
A list of public key certificates that have been revoked by a CA. CRLs are stored in the CRL 
database that is maintained through IKE.

data address 
An IP address that can be used as the source or destination address for data. Data addresses are
part of an IPMP group and can be used to send and receive traffic on any interface in the group.
Moreover, the set of data addresses in an IPMP group can be used continuously provided that
one interface in the group is functioning.

DCB (data center bridging) 
An L2 technology that is used to manage the bandwidth, relative priority, and flow control of 
multiple traffic types that share the same network link, for example, when sharing a datalink 
between networking and storage protocols.

DCBX (Data Center Bridging Exchange Protocol) 
A protocol that enables communication between hosts to exchange configuration information about 
the data center bridging features.

DefaultFixed NCP
The system's only fixed NCP in which the network configuration is instantiated but not
monitored.

DEPRECATED address
An IP address that cannot be used as the source address for data in an IPMP group. Usually,
IPMP test addresses are DEPRECATED. However, any address can be marked DEPRECATED to
prevent the address from being used as a source address.

dial-in server 
The peer that negotiates and establishes the recipient end of a dial-up PPP link after receiving
a call from a dial-out machine. Though the term “dial-in server” is in common use, the dial-in
server does not function in accordance with the client-server paradigm. Rather, it is simply the
peer that responds to the request to set up a dial-up link. After it is configured, a dial-in server
can receive calls from any number of dial-out machines.

dial-out machine
The peer that initiates the call to establish a dial-up PPP link. After it is configured, the dialout
machine can call any number of dial-in servers. The dial-out machine typically provides
authentication credentials before the dial-up link can be established.

dial-up PPP link
A PPP connection that involves a peer and a modem at either end of a telephone line or similar
communications medium, such as a medium that is provided by ISDN. The term “dial-up”
refers to the sequence in link negotiation when the local modem dials up the remote peer by
using the peer's telephone number. The dial-up link is the most common and least expensive
PPP configuration.

Diffie-Hellman protocol
An asymmetric cryptographic key agreement protocol that enables two users to exchange
a secret key over an insecure communication medium without any prior information.
Asymmetric cryptographic key agreement is the basis of public key cryptography.

diffserv model 
An Internet Engineering Task Force architectural standard for implementing differentiated
services on IP networks. In an IP network, the diffserv model provides a simple and scalable
mechanism for classifying and managing network traffic and providing IPQoS. The major
modules are classifier, meter, marker, scheduler, and dropper. IPQoS implements the classifier,
meter, and marker modules. For more information, see RFC 2475 (http://www.ietf.org/
rfc/rfc2475.txt).

DLMP aggregation
(datalink multipathing aggregation) A type of link aggregation that provides high availability
for the clients configured over the aggregation across multiple switches without requiring
switch configuration.

DN (distinguished name) A standardized method of using ordinary strings to represent shared
information. DN is used in technologies such as LDAP and X.509 certificates.

DOI (domain of interpretation) A DOI defines data formats, network traffic exchange types,
and conventions for naming security-relevant information. Security policies, cryptographic
algorithms, and cryptographic modes are examples of security-relevant information.

DR (dynamic reconfiguration) An operating system feature that is used to reconfigure system
hardware while the system is running. By using DR, hardware resources can be added or
replaced with little or no interruption to normal system operations. Not all Sun platforms from
Oracle support DR. Some platforms might only support DR of certain types of hardware such
as NICs.

DSCP (DS codepoint) A 6-bit value that is included in the Differentiated Service (DS) field of a
packet header. DSCP indicates how a packet must be forwarded. 

DSR (direct server return) A mode that allows the Integrated Load Balancer to balance the incoming
requests to the back-end servers but lets return traffic from the servers to the clients bypass the
Integrated Load Balancer.

DSU (data service unit) 
A synchronous telecommunications device that is used on a leased-line PPP link. DSU converts between 
data-framing formats that are used on telecommunications lines and provides a standard data 
communications interface.

dual stack 
A TCP/IP protocol stack that enables both IPv4 and IPv6 protocols to operate on the same
network infrastructure without the use of tunneling mechanism. 

dynamic routing
A type of routing in which the system automatically updates the routing table by using routing
protocols such as RIP for IPv4 networks and RIPng for IPv6 networks. Dynamic routing is best
used on large networks with many hosts.

ECMP (equal-cost multi-path) 
A routing technique for routing packets along multiple paths of equal cost. The forwarding engine 
identifies paths by next-hop. When forwarding a packet, the router must decide which next-hop 
(path) to use. 

ENM (external network modifier) 
A profile that is created for applications that are external to reactive network configuration 
but can change and modify a network configuration. ENMs provide the ability to specify when 
applications or scripts, for example, a VPN application, must perform its own network 
configuration external to that specified in the NCP and Location profiles.

ESP (encapsulating security payload) 
An extension header that provides integrity, confidentiality, and replay protection to IP datagrams.

ESSID (extended service set identifier) 
An electronic marker or identifier that serves as an identification and address for a computer 
or network device to connect and access the Internet. It is an identifying name for all 802.11 
wireless networks.

etherstub 
A virtual Ethernet switch that is configured at the datalink layer (L2) of the Oracle Solaris
network stack. You can create VNICs over etherstubs instead of physical links for the purpose
of constructing a private virtual network that is isolated from other virtual networks on the
system, as well as from the external network.

ETS (enhanced transmission selection) 
A DCB feature that allocates bandwidth on a NIC to the applications based on the DCB priority.

EVB (Edge Virtual Bridging) 
An L2 technology that enables hosts to exchange virtual link information with an external switch. 
EVB offloads the enforcement of traffic SLAs to the switch.

EVS (elastic virtual switch) 
A software virtual switch in Oracle Solaris that provides the ability to span multiple servers, 
thus providing network connectivity between the virtual machines on multiple servers connected 
to the elastic virtual switch. EVS client An EVS component from which you manage elastic virtual 
switches.

EVS controller
The EVS component that maintains the configuration and status of elastic virtual switches
across multiple nodes.

EVS manager 
The entity that communicates with the EVS controller to define the L2 network topologies and
the IP addresses that must be used on those L2 networks.

EVS node 
A host whose VNICs connect to an elastic virtual switch.
expect-send A scripting format that is used in PPP and UUCP chat scripts. The chat script begins with the
text or instruction to expect from the remote peer. The next line contains the response to be sent
from the local host after it receives the correct expect string from the peer. Subsequent lines
repeat the expect-send instructions between local host and peer until all instructions that are
required to establish communications are successfully negotiated.

extended accounting
A method that enables you to record resource consumption statistics on a task, process, flow, or
network component. You can regularly record the datalink and flow statistics over a period of
time in a log file. You can retrieve this data later for analysis.

Enables the recording of resource consumption statistics on a task, process, flow, or network
component. The datalink and flow statistics can be regularly recorded over a period of time in a
log file so that they can be retrieved later for analysis.

failure detection
The process of detecting when an interface or the path from an interface to an Internet layer
device no longer works. IP network multipathing (IPMP) and datalink multipathing (DLMP)
include two types of failure detection: link based (default) and probe based (optional).

FCoE (Fibre Channel over Ethernet) 
A T11 standard that transports encapsulated Fibre Channel frames over Enhanced Ethernet. FCoE 
enables network convergence and cost-effective storage area network (SAN) expansion in large deployments.
FDT (failure detection time) The amount of time required for detecting whether an interface or path
from an interface to an Internet layer device no longer works.

filter 
A set of rules that define the characteristics of a class in the IPQoS configuration file. The
IPQoS system selects for processing any traffic flows that conform to the filters in its IPQoS
configuration file. See packet filter.

fixed network configuration mode
A network configuration mode in which the instantiated configuration on the system is
persistent, regardless of whether any changes in network conditions occur. When such changes
occur, such as the addition of interfaces, you have to reconfigure the network for the system to
adapt to the new environment.

Flat network 
Used to implement an elastic virtual switch. All VM instances can be placed on the same
segment without a VLAN or VXLAN. There is no VLAN tagging or other types of network
segregation.

flow 
Customized way of categorizing network packets based on a single attribute or a combination
of attributes. The attributes that serve as the basis for creating flows are derived from the
information in a network packet's header. Flows can be associated with an SLA and used for
observability.

flow accounting
A process of accumulating and recording information about traffic flows in IPQoS. Flow
accounting can be established by defining parameters for the flowacct module in the IPQoS
configuration file.

flow attributes
Attributes that are derived from the information in a network packet's header that serve as the
basis for creating flows. The attributes can include the transport protocol name, IP address,
application port number, and DS field.

flow priority 
The priority with which packets belonging to a flow are processed. If the priority property of
a flow is set to high, all the packets belonging to that flow are processed ahead of other packets
on the same datalink. This property is used to create a flow for applications that are latency
sensitive.

GLDv3 (Generic LAN Driver version 3) 
The GLDv3 framework is a function calls-based interface of MAC plugins and MAC driver service
 routines and structures. The GLDv3 framework implements the necessary STREAMS entry points 
on behalf of GLDv3 compliant drivers and handles DLPI compatibility.

GVRP (General Attribute Registration Protocol) 
A protocol that is used by a client system to automatically register VLAN IDs with attached 
switches.

hop 
A measure that is used to identify the number of routers that separate two hosts. If three routers
separate a source and destination, the hosts are four hops away from each other.

ILB (Oracle Solaris Integrated Load Balancer) 
An L3 and L4 technology that enables a system to spread the load of network processing amongst 
available resources. ILB can be used to improve reliability and scalability, and to minimize the
response time of network services.

InfiniBand 
A I/O technology that is based on switched fabrics. It provides high bandwidth, low latency
interconnect for attaching I/O devices to hosts and for host-to-host communication. InfiniBand
is used in high-performance computing and enterprise data centers.

IP in IP encapsulation
The mechanism for encapsulating IP packets within IP packets. See encapsulation.

IPCP (Internet Protocol Control Protocol) 
A subprotocol of PPP that negotiates the IP addresses of the peers on the link. IPCP also 
negotiates header compression for the link and enables the use of the network layer protocols.

IPMP (IP Multipathing) 
A Layer 3 (L3) technology that ensures that a system has continuous access to the network. With 
IPMP, you configure multiple IP interfaces into an IPMP group.

IPMP group 
An IP multipathing group consists of a set of network interfaces with a set of data addresses
that are treated as interchangeable by the system to improve network availability and
utilization. The IPMP group, including all its underlying IP interfaces and data addresses, is
represented by an IPMP interface.

IPnet 
A block of IPv4 or IPv6 addresses that are associated with an elastic virtual switch. The block
of IPv4 or IPv6 addresses exists on the same subnet with a default router for the block and is
used with the Oracle Solaris Elastic Virtual Switch feature.

IPoIB VNICs 
A type of VNIC that enables the transport of the IP packets over IB connections. A partition
key must be specified when this VNIC is created.

IPQoS (IP Quality of Service) 
A software feature that provides an implementation of the diffserv model standard, plus flow 
accounting and 802.1D marking for virtual LANs. By using IPQoS, different levels of network 
services to customers and applications can be provided.

ISAKMP (Internet Security Association and Key Management Protocol) 
A common framework for establishing the format of SA attributes, and for negotiating, modifying, 
and deleting SAs.

ISAKMP is the IETF standard for handling an IKE exchange.

ISDN TA (Integrated Services Digital Network terminal adaptor) 
A signal-adapting device that provides a modem-like interface for a dial-up PPP link over an 
ISDN. Solaris PPP 4.0 configuration files are used to configure an ISDN TA when used as a 
standard modem.

isolated VLAN
A type of secondary VLAN. The ports that are associated with this type of VLAN can
communicate only with the primary VLAN and not with any other secondary VLAN. Only one
isolated VLAN can be created within a primary VLAN domain.

key management
The management of cryptographic keys. This management includes the generation, exchange,
storage, use, and replacement of keys at the user level, either between users or systems.

keystore 
The location on the disk or card where cryptographic keys are stored.

keystore name 
The name that the administrator gives to the keystore. In the Cryptographic Framework, the
keystore name is also called the 'token' or 'token ID'.

KMF (Oracle Solaris Key Management Framework) 
A framework that provides tools and programming interfaces for managing public key objects 
that include X.509 certificates and public or private key pairs. KMF also provides a tool for 
managing policies that define the use of X.509 certificates by applications.

LCP (Link Control Protocol) 
A subprotocol of PPP that is used to negotiate the initial set of link parameters between the 
peers. LCP checks the identity of the linked device, searches for errors in the link 
configuration, and determines the acceptable packet size for transmission.

LDAP (Lightweight Directory Access Protocol) 
A client-server protocol that is used to manage directory information over an IP network. LDAP 
enables a single point of management for storage, retrieval, and distribution of information. 
LDAP enables clients and servers that use LDAP naming services to communicate with each other. 
For more information, see RFC 4511 (https://tools.ietf.org/rfc/rfc4511.txt).

leased-line PPP link
A PPP connection that involves a host and a CSU/DSU that are connected to a synchronous
network medium leased from a provider. Optical Carrier 3 (OC3) and T carrier (T1) are
common examples of leased-line media. Though easier to administer, leased-line links are more
expensive than dial-up PPP links and therefore are less common.

link aggregation
A method of combining several links on a system into a single logical unit to increase the
throughput of network traffic and provide high availability. Link aggregation is an L2 entity
that includes DLMP aggregation and trunk aggregation.

LLDP (Link Layer Discovery Protocol) 
A link layer protocol that enables network devices to advertise their capabilities, identity, 
and current status to other network devices on an IEEE 802 local area network (LAN).

load spreading
The process of distributing inbound or outbound traffic over a set of interfaces. With load
spreading, higher throughput is achieved. Load spreading occurs only when the network
traffic is flowing to multiple destinations that use multiple connections. The two types of load
spreading are inbound load spreading for inbound traffic and outbound load spreading for
outbound traffic.

local-use address
A unicast address that has only a local routeability scope (within the subnet or within a
subscriber network). This address also can have a local or global uniqueness scope.

LRO (large receive offload) 
A technology that merges successive incoming packets into a single packet before the packets 
are delivered to the IP layer. The incoming packets must share the same transport protocol, 
local or remote IP address, and port number. This set of attributes are also known as a five-tuple.

marker 
A module in the diffserv architecture that marks a packet with a value that indicates how the
packet must to be forwarded.

master router 
A VRRP instance that performs the routing function for the virtual router at a given time. Only
one master router is active at a time for a given VRID. The master router controls the IPv4 or
IPv6 address or addresses that are associated with the virtual router. The virtual router forwards
the packets that are sent to the IP address of the master router. See also VRRP and VRID.

meter 
A module in the diffserv architecture that measures the rate of traffic flow for a particular class.
The IPQoS implementation includes two meters, tokenmt and tswtclmt.

minimal encapsulation
An optional form of IPv4 in IPv4 tunneling that can be supported by home agents, foreign
agents, and mobile nodes. Minimal encapsulation has 8 or 12 bytes less of overhead than the IP
in IP encapsulation.

MS-CHAP (Microsoft CHAP) 
A proprietary Microsoft authentication protocol for PPP. Solaris PPP 4.0 supports versions 1 and 
2 of this protocol in both client and server mode.

MTU (maximum transmission unit) 
The size of the largest data unit, given in octets, that can be transmitted over a link.

multihomed host
A system that has more than one interface and that does not perform packet forwarding. A
multihomed host can run routing protocols.

NCP (network configuration profile) 
The profiles that manage the system's network configuration in Oracle Solaris. Only one NCP 
can be active on a system at a time.

NCU (network configuration unit) 
An individual configuration object that contains all the properties that defines an NCP. Each 
NCU represents a physical link or an interface and contains properties that define the 
configuration for that link or interface.

neighbor solicitation
A solicitation that is sent by a node to determine the link-layer address of a neighbor. A
neighbor solicitation also verifies that a neighbor is still reachable by a cached link-layer
address.

network accounting
A method that is used to capture statistics about network traffic in a log file for tracking,
provisioning, consolidation, or billing purposes.

NFS (Network File System) 
A file system protocol that is used to remotely access shared files across a network. Oracle 
Solaris supports NFSv2, NFSv3, NFSv4, and NFSv4.1 versions. For more information about the NFS 
versions, see RFC 1094, RFC 1831, and RFC 5661 respectively.

NIC rings On NICs, receive (Rx) rings and transmit (Tx) rings are hardware resources through 
which the system receives and sends network packets, respectively.

NIS (network information service) 
A distributed network database containing key information about the systems and the users 
on the network.

node 
In a computer network, a node is a connection point or an end point for the transmission of the
data.

NTP (Network Time Protocol) 
A protocol that is used to set and maintain the system time. 

outcome 
In IPQoS, the action to take as a result of metering traffic. The IPQoS meters have three

outcomes: red, yellow, and green. You define the outcomes in the IPQoS configuration file.

packet filter 
A firewall function that can be configured to allow or disallow specified packets through a
firewall.

PAP (password authentication protocol) 
An authentication protocol that can be used to verify the identity of a caller on a PPP link. 
PAP uses a cleartext password that is passed over the link, which makes it possible to store the 
password on one of the endpoint systems. For example, PAP can use the login and password entries 
in the UNIX passwd database on the system that receives a call to verify the identity of the 
caller.

PFC (priority-based flow control) 
A datalink level flow control mechanism. PFC extends the standard PAUSE frame to include the 
IEEE 802.1p class of service (CoS) values. In PFC, the traffic is paused selectively only for 
the CoS values that are enabled in the PFC frame instead of halting all the traffic on the 
datalink.

PFS (perfect forward secrecy) 
In PFS, the key that is used to protect transmission of data is not used to derive additional keys. 
Also, the source of the key that is used to protect data transmission is never used to derive 
additional keys. PFS applies to the authenticated key exchange in IKE.

PHB (per-hop behavior) 
A priority that is assigned to a traffic class of a packet when traversing a hop.

PPP (Point-to-Point Protocol) 
A link layer protocol that provides a standard method for transferring datagrams over 
point-to-point media. A PPP configuration consists of two endpoint computers
called peers, and the telephone lines or other bidirectional link that the peers use for
communication. The hardware and software connection between the two peers is considered
the PPP link.
PPP is composed of a number of subprotocols, including PAP, CHAP, LCP, and CCP

PPPoE (PPP over Ethernet) 
A protocol that enables hosts to run PPP sessions over an Ethernet link.
PPPoE is commonly used with Digital Subscriber Line (DSL) services.

primary MAC client
The MAC client that represents the NIC or PV NIC and has its own address and other attributes
of L2 (MAC) and L3 (IP) layers.

primary VLAN Standard (IEEE 802.1Q) VLAN.

private virtual network
A virtual network that is isolated both from other virtual networks that are on the system, as
well as from the external network. Private virtual networks are configured over etherstubs.

promiscuous trunk port
A port configured on the top-level switch uplink port that can communicate with both the
isolated and the community VLANs.

proxy server 
An intermediary server between a client and another server. It provides caching service,
administrative control, and security. For example, a proxy server can be used to prevent access
to certain web sites.

PTP (Precision Time Protocol) 
An IEEE protocol that is used to synchronize the system clock across multiple systems in a 
broadcast domain. The PTP software is implemented as the ptpd daemon, which is an 
implementation of the PTP Version 2 as defined in the IEEE standard 1588-2008.

public key cryptography
A cryptographic algorithm, which requires two different keys that are mathematically linked.
The public key is available to everyone. The private key is known only to the recipient of the
message. Public key cryptography is also known as asymmetric cryptography

PV NIC 
An entity that resides in the hypervisor of the guest operating system and is the equivalent of
the physical NIC in the host, for example, zvnet in the kernel zone.        (entity, as in ghost?)

PVID (port VLAN identifier) 
The default VLAN ID that is assumed for untagged packets sent to and received from a link.

PVLAN (private VLAN) 
A subdivision of a VLAN to isolate network traffic. PVLAN partitions the VLAN, which is a 
single broadcast domain into smaller sub-domains.

PVLAN secondary trunk port
A port that is configured on the intermediate switches to allow PVLAN traffic to span multiple
switches.

RCM (reconfiguration coordination manager) 
A framework that manages the dynamic removal of system components and helps to register and 
release system resources in an orderly manner.

reactive network configuration mode
A network configuration mode in which the system automatically adapts to any change in the
network condition without requiring manual reconfiguration.

redirect 
In a router, to inform a host of a better first-hop node to reach a particular destination.

reflective relay
A feature in EVB that provides an option to send inter-VM traffic on the wire to be looped
back by the external switch and enables the consolidation of multiple hosts into multiple VMs
or zones on a shared host.

repair detection
The process of detecting when a NIC or the path from the NIC to a Layer 3 device starts
operating correctly after a failure.

replay attack 
A network attack in which a packet is captured by an intruder during data transmission. The
captured packet is either replaced with a fraudulent packet or repeated later. To protect against
such attacks, a packet can contain a field that increments during the lifetime of the secret key
that is protecting the packet.

RIP (Routing Information Protocol) 
An Internal Gateway Protocol that routes IPv4 packets and maintains the routing table of all 
the hosts on the LAN. For more information, see RFC 2453 (https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc2453).

RIPng (Routing Information Protocol next generation) 
An Internal Gateway Protocol that routes IPv6 packets and maintains the routing table of 
all the hosts on the LAN. For more information, see RFC 2080 
(http://tools.ietf.org/rfc/rfc2080.txt).

router solicitation
The process of hosts requesting routers to generate router advertisements immediately, rather
than at their next scheduled time.

SA (security association) 
An association that specifies security properties from one host to a second host. IKE automates 
the provision of authenticated keying material for IPsec SAs. SADB (security associations 
database) A table of SAs that specifies cryptographic keys and cryptographic algorithms. The 
keys and algorithms are used in the secure transmission of data.

SCTP (Stream Control Transport Protocol) 
A transport layer protocol that provides connectionoriented communications in a manner similar 
to TCP. Additionally, SCTP supports multihoming, in which one of the endpoints of the connection 
can have more than one IP address. For more information, see RFC 4960 
(http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc4960).

secondary VLAN
A sub-VLAN of a primary VLAN.

Secure RPC (Secure Remote Procedure Call) 
A method that protects remote procedures with an authentication mechanism. The Diffie-Hellman 
authentication mechanism authenticates both the host and the user who is making a request for 
a service. The authentication mechanism uses DES encryption. Applications that use Secure RPC 
include NFS and the NIS naming service.
selector 
In IPQoS, the element that specifically defines the criteria to be applied to packets of a
particular class in order to select that traffic from the network stream. You define selectors in
the filter clause of the IPQoS configuration file.

sendmail 
A program that acts as a mail transport agent and uses a configuration file to provide aliasing
and forwarding, automatic routing to network gateways, and flexible configuration.
SMB (Server Message Block) 
A protocol that enables clients to access files and request services of a server on the network.

SMF (service management facility) 
A feature that defines the relationships between applications or services so that dependent 
services can be automatically restarted when necessary.

smurf attack 
The process of creating severe network congestion or outages by using ICMP echo request
packets directed to an IP broadcast address or multiple broadcast addresses from remote
locations.
SPD (security policy database) 
A database that specifies the level of protection to apply to a packet protected by IPsec. 
The SPD filters IP traffic to determine whether a packet must be discarded,
sent on the network, or protected with IPsec.

SSL (secure sockets layer) 
A form of secure low-level encryption that is used by protocols like HTTP and FTP. The SSL 
protocol includes provisions for server authentication, encryption of data in transit, and 
optional client authentication.

SSL kernel proxy
The configurable proxy runs in kernel to accelerate web server communications that are
protected by the secure sockets layer (SSL). The SSL kernel proxy is also known as KSSL.

stateful packet filter
A packet filter that can monitor the state of active connections and use the information obtained
to determine which network packets to allow through the firewall. By tracking and matching
requests and replies, a stateful packet filter can screen for a reply that doesn't match a request.

symmetric key cryptography
An encryption system in which the sender and receiver of a message share a single common
key. This common key is used to encrypt and decrypt the message. Advanced Encryption
Standard is an example of a symmetric key.

synchronous PPP
A form of PPP that runs over synchronous digital lines, which transfer data as a continuous
stream of raw bits. A leased-line PPP link uses synchronous PPP.

tenant 
A logical group containing an elastic virtual switch and its resources. The resources are not
visible outside the tenant's namespace.

test address 
An IP address in an IPMP group which must be used as the source or destination address for
probes, and must not be used as a source or destination address for data traffic.

TRILL (transparent interconnection of lots of links) 
A protocol that is used by bridged networks to prevent network loops without disabling links. 
TRILL computes the shortest-path information for each TRILL node in the network and uses that 
information to forward packets to individual destinations. TRILL helps to load-balance the 
traffic between several paths to the destination.

trunk aggregation
A link aggregation that is based on the IEEE 802.3ad standard. Trunk aggregations work by
enabling multiple flows of traffic to be spread across a set of aggregated ports. The IEEE 802.3
ad requires switch configuration, as well as switch-vendor proprietary extensions in order to
work across multiple switches.

trusted callers 
In PPP, remote peers that a dial-in server grants access to by including the peers' security
credentials in the server's PAP or CHAP secrets database.

uplink port 
A datalink over which VNICs are created, when you use the Oracle Solaris EVS feature.

user-priority 
A 3-bit value that implements class-of-service (CoS) marks. CoS defines how Ethernet
datagrams are forwarded on a network of VLAN devices.

UUCP (UNIX-to-UNIX Copy Program) 
A program that enables computers to transfer files and exchange mails with each other. UUCP 
also enables computers to participate in large networks such as Usenet.

VDP (VSI Discovery and Configuration Protocol) 
A protocol used by EVB to exchange information about VSIs (Virtual Switch Interfaces).
virtual port 
The point of attachment between the VNIC and an elastic virtual switch. A virtual port
encapsulates various network configuration parameters that is inherited by the VNIC when it
connects to the virtual port.

virtual switch 
An entity that facilitates communication between virtual machines. The virtual switch loops
traffic between virtual machines (inter-VM traffic) within the physical machine and does not
send this traffic out on the wire. Virtual switches are automatically instantiated when VNICs
are created and they are managed by EVS.

VLAN device (virtual LAN device) 
Network interfaces that provide traffic forwarding at the Ethernet (datalink) level of the 
IP protocol stack.

VNI (virtual network identifier) 
VXLANs are identified by using VXLAN segment IDs, which are also known as VNIs. Every VXLAN 
datalink is associated with a VNI.

VNIC (virtual network interface card) 
An L2 entity or virtual network device that behaves just like a physical NIC when configured. 
You configure a VNIC over an underlying datalink to share it between multiple zones or virtual 
machines (VMs) or connect a VNIC to an elastic virtual switch.
VRID (Virtual Router ID) 
A unique number used to identify a virtual router on a given network segment. VRIDs identify 
the virtual router within a LAN.

VRIP (Virtual IP address) 
An IP address associated with a VRID from which other hosts can obtain network service. The VRIP 
is managed by the VRRP instances belonging to a VRID.

VXLAN (virtual extensible local area network) 
An L2 and L3 technology that works by overlaying a datalink (L2) network on top of an IP (L3) 
network. VXLANs address the 4K limitation that is imposed when using VLANs. Typically, VXLANs 
are used in a cloud infrastructure to isolate multiple virtual networks.



